bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023From  IOC to IEC
International Oil Company 
to Integrated Energy Company
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

   
Sustainab ility
IntegrationTransition growth engines Convenience
and mobility
BioenergyaHydrogen
Renewables & powerConvenience
EV chargingOil and gas
ReﬁningRetail fuels 
Castrol,  aviation, 
B2B/midstreamLow carbon 
energyResilient 
hydrocar bonsOnline quick read
A concise summary of the bp Annual Report and Form 
20-F 2023 , highlighting strategy, performance and 
sustainability information.
bp.com/annualreport
Online reporting centre
All our bp corporate reports, including the Sustainability Report , the  Net Zero Ambition Progress Update and the 
bp Energy Outlook.
bp.com/reportingcentreNavigating this report More information
Read more on another page of this report
Read more online
Glossary
Words and terms marked with  are defined 
in the glossary on page 373
Task Force on Climate-related Financial   
D
isclosures (TCFD) 
Information that supports TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in relation to Metrics and Targets is indicated with 
.
a Bioenergy includes customer-facing and midstream biofuels activities that form part of convenience and mobility.Our strategy
Our strategy is focused on three key areas of activity, which include our five transition growth  engines. 
Our sustainability frame and the power of integration underpins and connects it all. Our destination is unchanged – we are transforming from an international oil company 
to an integrated energy company. 
Investing in today’s energy system, while helping build out tomorrow’s – all in service of 
growing the value of bp.
We are confident in our strategy and plan to deliver this as a simpler, more focused and 
higher value company.Growing the value of bp
Our strategy, page 12

1
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic reportScale
Performance
Safety and sustainability2023 at a glance
As at 31 December 2023
87,800b
employees
(2022 67,600)
$15.2bn
profit for the year attributable to
 
bp shareholders
(2022 loss $(2.5)bn)
39 
tier 1 and 2 process safety
 
events
(2022 50)95.0%   
bp-operated upstream plant
 
reliability
(2022 96.0%)
2,850  
strategic convenience sites
(2022 2,400)
$5.78/boe   
upstream  unit 
production  
costs
(2022 $6.07/boe)2.3  
million barrels of oil equivalent – upstream
 production
(2022 2.3mmboe/d)
21,100
retail sites
(2022 20,650)61
countries of operation(2022 62)
$13.8bn  
underlying replacement cost
 
(RC) profit
(2022 $27.7bn)
0.9 
million tonnes of CO 2 
equivalent
 
– sustainable 
GHG  
emissions reductions
(2022 1.5MtCO 2e)96.1%   
bp-operated refining  availability
(2022 94.5%)
6.2GW  
developed renewables  to
 
FID  (net)
(2022 5.8GW)>29,000  
electric vehicle charge points
(2022 ~22,000)Strategic report
2023 at a glance 1
About bp 2
Chair’s letter 4
Chief executive officer’s letter 6
The operating environment 8
Energy outlook 10
Our strategy in action 12
Consistency with the Paris goals 14
Our business model 16
Progress against our strategy 18
Key performance indicators 24
Our financial frame 28
Our investment process 30
Group performance 35
Gas & low carbon energy 39
Oil production & operations 42
Customers & products 44
Other businesses & corporate 46
Sustainability 48
Climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) 55
How we manage risk 73
Risk factors 77
Compliance information 80
Non-financial and sustainability 
information statement80
Section 172 statement 80
Corporate governance
Introduction from the chair 82
Board of directors 83
Leadership team 86
Governance framework 88
Decision making by the board 89
Board activities 90
Our stakeholders 92
People and governance committee 94
Audit committee 98
Safety and sustainability committee 103
Remuneration committee 105
Directors’ remuneration report 105
Other disclosures 133
Directors’ statements 134
Financial statements
Consolidated financial statements of the bp group 137
Notes on the financial statements 169
Supplementary information on oil and natural gas (unaudited)247
Parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. 275
Additional disclosures 335
Shareholder information 363
Glossary 373
Non-IFRS measure reconciliations 382
Signatures 385
Cross-reference to Form 20-F 386
Information about this report 387
Exhibits 387Key
Performance against our strategy, page 13
Key performance indicator, page 24
b T his figure reflects new acquisitions including TravelCenters of America .

2
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023About bp 
We deliver energy products and services to our 
customers around the world, and we plan to do so increasingly in ways that we believe will help drive the transition to a lower carbon future.
We have operations in Europe, North and South 
America, Australasia, Asia and Africa.Financial reporting segment performance
At 31 December 2023, the group’s reportable 
segments were gas & low carbon energy, oil production & operations and customers & products. Each is managed separately, with decisions taken for the segment as a whole, and represents a single operating segment that does not result from aggregating two or more segments (see
 
Financial
 
statements – Note 5).Our purpose
Our purpose is reimagining energy for people 
and 
our planet. We want to help the world reach 
net
 
zero and improve people’s lives.
Who we are
‘Who we are’ defines what we stand for at bp, 
building on our best qualities and those things that are most important to us. It comprises three simple beliefs that can inspire each of us at bp to be our best every day.Gas & low carbon energya
Comprises our gas & low carbon energy businesses. Our gas business 
includes regions with upstream activities that predominantly produce natural gas, integrated gas and power, and gas trading. Our low carbon business includes solar, offshore and onshore wind, hydrogen and carbon capture and storage (CCS), and power trading. Power trading includes trading of both renewable and non-renewable power.
$14.1bn
replacement cost (RC) profit 
before interest and taxb
(2022 $14.7bn)$8.7bn
underlying RC profit before interest and tax
(2022 $16.1bn)
Segment performance, page 39
a T he Azerbaijan-Georgia-Türkiye and Middle East regions have been further subdivided by asset.
b
 I
FRS requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision maker. For bp, this measure of  
profit or loss is replacement cost profit before interest and tax, which reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and  losses
 from profit before interest and tax. Replacement cost profit for the group is not a recognized measure under IFRS. For further information see Financial statements – Note 5.Our people at bp’s Sunbury campus in Surrey, UK Seagull oil and gas field in the UK North Sea
Resilient hydrocarbons, page 19 Our people, page 70Live our   purposePlay  to winCare  for others

3
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Oil production & operationsa
Comprises regions with upstream activities that predominantly produce 
crude oil, including bpx energy.
$11.2bn
RC profit before interest 
and
 
taxb
(2022 $19.7bn)$12.8bn
underlying RC profit before interest and tax(2022 $20.2bn)
Segment performance, page 42
Customers & products
Comprises customer-focused businesses, which include convenience 
and retail fuels, EV charging, as well as Castrol, aviation and B2B and midstream. It also includes our products businesses, refining & oil trading, as well as our bioenergy businesses.
$4.2bn
RC profit before interest 
and
 
taxb
(2022 $8.9bn)$6.4bn
underlying RC profit before interest and tax(2022 $10.8bn)
Segment performance,  page 44
Other businesses & corporate
Comprises innovation & engineering; bp ventures; launchpad; regions, 
corporates & solutions; our corporate activities and functions; and any residual costs of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. It also includes Rosneft results up to 27 February 2022.
$(0.9)bn
RC loss before interest and  taxb
(2022 loss $(26.7)bn)$(0.9)bn
underlying RC loss before 
interest and tax(2022 loss $(1.2)bn)
Segment performance, page 46Reconciling strategic pillars to our reportable segments 
At 31 December 2023 the group’s reportable segments were gas & low 
carbon energy, oil production & operations, and customers & products. We reconcile these to our business activities and strategic pillars in the table below.
c I ncludes customer-facing and midstream biofuels activities that form part of the bioenergy transition growth engine.Construction of Peacock Solar in Texas, US The Gigahub  at the NEC campus in Birmingham, UK
Low carbon energy, page 22 Convenience and mobility, page 21 Denotes transition growth  engine.
2023 progress against our strategy, pages 18-23
Financial segment performance in 2023, pages 35-47Strategic 
pillarsGas & low carbon energyOil production & operationsCustomers & products
Resilient 
hydrocarbonsGas regions
Gas marketing 
and tradingOil regions Refining and oil trading
Bioenergyc 
Convenience 
and mobilityConvenience 
Fuels
EV charging 
Castrol , aviation,  
B2B/midstream
Low carbon 
energyRenewables & 
power 
Hydrogen 

4
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Chair’s letter
Dear fellow shareholders,
The past year has been positive in many 
respects, but it has been challenging too.  From the ongoing complexity of the energy transition to economic uncertainty and market volatility. Add to that, across the world conflict has continued to touch many lives – and our thoughts are with all those who have been affected. 
I will start with safety – both physical and 
psychological – because it always comes first at bp and is fundamental in the board’s discussions and decision making. 
On behalf of the board, I would like to recognize 
the work by bp’s teams on operational safety – especially in achieving a reduction in the number of our most serious process safety incidents ( page 24 ). However, three people died 
while working for bp and this is unacceptable. Chief executive transition
If bp made progress on safety and had a strong operational and financial performance in 2023, there were challenges too, including the change in CEO in September. However, for me and for the board, the positive here was the effectiveness of our emergency succession planning, which allowed us to appoint Murray Auchincloss immediately as interim leader, and avoid a leadership vacuum. The robust and competitive recruitment process that followed, and his performance in that process, led the board to appoint him as CEO on a permanent basis at the beginning of 2024. 
The board was in full agreement that Murray 
was the best candidate – but this was not just our view. We sought feedback from many stakeholders including our shareholders. It was very important to have this dialogue with so many of you and I want to thank you for your advice and support.Murray has been at bp for more than two decades and he is deeply committed to the company and its people. He has a track record of performance, he knows how to bring out the best in a team, he was one of the chief architects of the strategy – and he knows the industry inside out. I say more about this transition on page 82 . 
I am grateful to my fellow board members for their support in this process. Their constructive scrutiny of candidates allowed us to make a decision that, we believe, is right for bp. 
Murray’s strategic vision and focus on 
performance will help bp to unlock even  more of our potential to compete, win and  grow the value of bp. With her strong finance leadership experience, the subsequent appointment of Kate Thomson as chief  financial officer in February gives the board great confidence in what can be achieved in 2024 and beyond. 
 bp had a strong operational 
performance in 2023 and its strategy remains well suited to the energy transition as it unfolds.

5
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Strategic direction 
This leadership transition marks a new  
chapter for the company, but not a new  strategic direction. 
This year, it has become even clearer that the 
world needs a better, more balanced energy system. One that is secure, affordable and lower carbon. bp’s strategy to go from an international oil company to an integrated energy company is designed both to help build a better system and to create value for shareholders while doing so. 
bp had a strong operational performance in 
2023 and its strategy remains well suited to the energy transition as it unfolds. The global move to a lower carbon energy system is not straightforward and presents both challenges and opportunities for an energy company like bp. With global markets remaining unpredictable, flexibility will be important and the strategy allows for this.
Role of culture 
As bp’s business activities evolve, the strength of its culture is paramount. It builds trust within bp’s teams, encourages better performance and helps bp to attract and keep the best talent. A key aspect of this is its speak-up culture. bp encourages everyone to raise any concerns they have, including when they see something they think is inconsistent with the code of conduct or is unsafe or unlawful. bp tools allow them to do this safely, securely, in confidence and without fear of retaliation (see page 72 ).Closing thanks 
Every day, bp teams continue to go to work on rigs, in our refineries, in offices, at sea, at our retail sites
 and at our solar and wind 
installations – to mention just some of bp’s many areas of operation. I want to thank them all for the considerable progress bp made in 2023. 
I also want to thank Paula Rosput Reynolds and 
Sir John Sawers for their distinguished service. Over almost nine years, Paula has been a valued member of the board, including roles as chair of the remuneration committee (Remco) and senior independent director (SID). I am pleased that Amanda Blanc will take on the role of SID and, for an interim period, Tushar Morzaria the role of Remco chair, both with effect from the end of our annual general meeting in April 2024. Sir John’s considerable work since 2015 includes supporting our safety and sustainability committee and our people and governance committee – and he has been highly regarded as chair of our geopolitical advisory council. Both will step down at the end of our annual general meeting in April 2024.  
I will close with a final thank you. As I look 
back at this year, one of the highlights for me personally has been my meetings with you, my fellow shareholders – this year more than ever. In a time of internal change and external uncertainty, I want to thank you for your advice, your belief in bp – and for your trust and support throughout.
Helge Lund
Chair8 March 2024 $6.5bn
share buybacks announced from  our 2023 surplus cash flow
$4.8bn
total dividends distributed  to bp shareholders

6
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Chief executive officer’s letter
Dear fellow shareholders,
Thank you for your support over the last year, 
especially during the period of leadership transition. It is an honour to lead your company as CEO. 
Our destination is unchanged. We’re moving 
from an international oil company to an integrated energy company – IOC to IEC.  We’re investing in today’s energy system,  which is mainly oil and gas, while building out tomorrow’s. And we are focused on growing the value of bp. Safety first
Safety always comes first in everything we do. In 2023 three people lost their lives while working for bp – a contractor at bpx energy and two colleagues at our newly acquired TravelCenters of America business. We will  never accept this as part of doing business. Our goal is the elimination of all fatalities, life-changing injuries and the most serious process safety incidents. 
In 2023 we continued to make progress on 
process safety, but there is always more to do. We need to constantly reinforce and build on  our operating culture across the business, rigorously applying our Operating Management System
 (OMS), embedding the Lifesaving 
Rules and living our Safety Leadership Principles. We are determined to keep building a safer bp. 
A year of delivery 
In 2023 we delivered a resilient operational and financial performance, with earnings (adjusted EBITDA
) of $43.7 billiona and operating cash 
flow  of $32.0 billion. This contributed to: 
•
 P
rofit for the year attributable to bp 
shareholders of $15.2 billion.
•
 U
nderlying replacement cost profit   
of $13.8 billion.
•
 R
eturn on average capital employed  
(ROACE)  of 18.1%b.
•
 Ne
t debt  reduced to $20.9 billionc 
– its lowest in a decade. 
In turn this has allowed us to deliver competitive distributions to our shareholders: 
•
 A 1
0% increase in the dividend per ordinary 
share (compared with the fourth quarter 
of 2022). 
•
 $
6.5 billion in share buybacks from our 
2023 surplus cash flow .
•
 1
7% reduction in issued share capital 
between the end of the first quarter of  2021 and 31 December 2023.We continue to maintain a disciplined financial frame. The strength of our underlying financial performance, the disciplined approach to strengthening the balance sheet over the last few years, and our confidence in our drive towards 2025 gave us the capacity to update the financial frame earlier this year. As we announced in February 2024, we have tightened our capital expenditure
 guidance and 
enhanced our share buyback guidance, all while continuing to prioritize a strong balance sheet and strong investment grade credit rating.
Strategic progress 
We are four years into our journey from IOC to IEC. Our strategy is based on the judgement that oil and gas will be needed for decades, but that a global shift to lower carbon energy is well underway. Since the pace of that shift is uncertain we will continue to be flexible and pragmatic, responding to changing demand and societal need, as we did in February 2023. 
Our strategic progress in 2023 included: •
 O
il and gas production growth of 2.6%, 
underpinned by strong growth from  
bpx energy and good management of  our base business. 
•
 S
trong underlying year-on-year growth  
in our convenience gross margin .
•
 E
V charge points  up 35% globally,  
energy sold up 150%. 
•
 B
iogas supply volumes  up 80%, biofuels 
production  up 18%.
•
 2
1.1GW net growth in our renewables 
pipeline. 
•
 1
.1mtpa net growth in our hydrogen  
pipeline .
•
 C
ompleted the planned implementation 
of methane measurement approach across our operated upstream oil and gas assets.
a A djusted EBITDA for the group is a non-IFRS measure and its nearest IFRS-equivalent measure is profit for the year 2023.
b
 R
OACE is a non-IFRS measure and its nearest IFRS measures of numerator and denominator are profit for the year 2023 attributable to bp shareholders of $15.2 billion and total equity at the end 
of 2023 of $85.5 billion respectively. 
c
 N
et debt is a non-IFRS measure and its nearest IFRS-equivalent measure is finance debt at the end of 2023. Nearest IFRS-equivalent measures
$15.9bn
profit for the year  2023a
17.8%
profit for the year 2023 attributable 
to
 
bp
 
shareholders divided by total 
equity
 
at
 
31 December
 
2023b
$52.0bn
finance debt at the end of 2023c

7
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373As we drive to 2025, we will focus 
on executing to deliver value.
Growing the value of bp 
The last few years were about generating 
options. As we drive to 2025, we will focus on executing to deliver value. To guide that effort, we’ve set out six near-term priorities for bp. These are: to keep improving safety and reducing emissions. To make the company simpler and more focused. To become more efficient by putting technology and digitization at the heart of what we do. To progress our growth projects. To invest to maximize returns. All while maintaining our commitment to shareholder distributions. 
bp is a great company. We have high-quality 
resources, outstanding science and engineering, strong partnerships, a world-class trading capability, and above all great people. Six priorities to grow the value of bp 
1. I mprove safety and reduce emissions. 
2. D rive a focus in the business on activities 
that create the most value. 
3. D eliver the next wave of efficiency 
– including technology and global capability hubs.
4. D eliver the next set of growth projects 
that provide growth through to 2030 and beyond. 
5. O ptimize ROACE through disciplined 
investment allocation. 
6. G row shareholder returns. 
Read more: page 29I believe very few companies can deliver what we offer. It’s why I’ve never been more confident that we can win in this transition as a simpler, more focused and higher value bp. 
Last but not least, thank you for your continued 
support, and a big thank you to the whole bp team for working incredibly hard in what was at times an uncertain year. 
Murray Auchincloss
Chief executive officer8 March 2024

8
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023The operating environmentEnergy markets
Through 2023 energy markets and prices were 
volatile as demand and supply flows continued to adjust to post-COVID-19 recoveries in demand and disruptions caused by the Russia-Ukraine war. Concerns about energy security and emissions continued to boost renewables as the world transitions towards a lower carbon future. 
Economic growth was uneven across regions, 
as past increases in energy prices and steep rises in interest rates had varying effects in different countries. 
Inflation rates fell significantly as the effects 
of past increases in food and energy prices on annual inflation eased. However, inflation across much of the world remained above central banks’ targets, and a combination of squeezed incomes and the sharp tightening in monetary policy contributed to a below-average growth rate of around 3% for the global economy in 2023. 
Growth in advanced economies was 1.5%
a,  
with weakness in the euro area contrasting  
with continued robust growth in the US. Emerging economies grew by around 4%
a,  
with China experiencing a rebound in growth to 5.2%
a as it emerged from COVID-19 lockdowns. 
Expansion of other emerging economies was dampened by higher interest rates and weak demand for their exports.
Oil
Oil prices were elevated across much of 2023, supported by a combination of robust oil demand growth and OPEC production cuts. Brent averaged $83/bbl in 2023, down from $101/bbl in the previous year. Global oil demand grew by 2.3mmb/d to 101.7mmb/d in 2023
b. 
The structural post-COVID-19 rebound of mobility (jet and gasoline), including a significant increase in Chinese oil demand of 1.7mmb/d
b, 
supported the well-above-trend growth.A combination of official and voluntary cuts caused OPEC+ production to fall by 390kb/d
b in 
2023, led by Saudi Arabia, which accounted for a 900kb/d contraction versus 2022
b. However, 
these reductions were offset by strong growth in non-OPEC+ supplies, which increased by 2.3mmb/d in 2023
b, with the US accounting 
for two-thirds of that increaseb. 
Natural gas
A combination of a relatively warm European winter in 2022-23 and muted European gas demand caused European and Asian natural  gas prices to fall early in 2023. Even so, European gas prices in 2023 were still double their 2015-2019 average level
c following the loss 
of the majority of Russian pipeline gas supply to the EU in 2022. 
Asian liquefied natural gas (LNG) prices followed 
European gas prices lower in 2023, and moved back to trading predominantly at a premium to European prices in a reversal of the trend seen in 2022. The increased demand for LNG cargoes following the loss of Russian gas pipeline supply to the EU, combined with below-average growth in new LNG supply capacity in 2023, meant the global LNG market remained sensitive to supply risks, for example reacting strongly to potential outages in Australia. 
In the US, Henry Hub (HH) gas prices averaged 
61%
d lower than in 2022 as the growth in dry 
natural gas production outpaced demand. Lower HH prices incentivized coal-to-gas switching in the power sector, and heightened demand for cooling during summer heatwaves helped to avoid storage congestion. US gas storage stocks were 13%
e above historical 
average levels at the end of 2023. In response to the lower prices, the number of US gas rigs operating declined by a third from its peak in 2022
f. Refining marker margin
We use a global refining marker margin (RMM)  
to track the refining margin environment. Global RMM fell from the record highs reached in 2022, when Russia’s invasion of Ukraine caused significant disruption to refining operations and established trade flows. RMM values averaged $25.8/bbl, $7.3/bbl lower than in 2022
g, mainly due to elevated refinery output, 
including as a result of new capacity additions.
Power and renewables
Total solar and wind capacity additions in 2023 were expected to have reached around 380GW (on alternating current basis), a record increase historically, and more than 100GW higher than in 2022
h, with the increase driven mainly by 
China and solar photovoltaic (PV) deployment. The ongoing effects of the Russia-Ukraine war have increased countries’ focus on their energy security, supporting greater deployment of renewable energy capacity.
Higher commodity prices, rises in interest rates 
and continued supply chain bottlenecks led to some increases in costs for solar and wind power in several countries. The offshore wind sector was particularly affected, and some projects were cancelled as their economic viability was eroded. However, we saw governments in many key offshore wind markets remain committed to achieving their offshore wind targets and developing their domestic offshore supply chains, providing continued support to the sector.bp operates across volatile energy markets. Here we discuss broader economic trends we have observed 
that influence our sector as a whole.
a I MF World Economic Outlook, October 2023 update.
b
 I
EA Oil Market Report, January 2024.
c
 P
latts Dutch TTF Day Ahead price.
d
 P
latts Henry Hub cash price.
e
 W
eekly Natural Gas Storage Report, EIA.
f
 B
aker Hughes Rig Count.
g
 T
he RMM may not be representative of the margin achieved by bp in any period because of bp’s particular refinery configurations and crude and product slates. In addition, the RMM does not 
include estimates of energy or other variable costs.
h
 I
EA Renewables 2023 report; PV capacity additions converted from DC to AC basis by dividing by 1.25. 

9
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Hydrogen and carbon capture 
and 
storage
There continues to be widespread recognition 
of the need to use low carbon hydrogen and hydrogen-based fuels to help decarbonize harder-to-abate sectors of the global economy. However, high costs and the slow pace of enabling policy have caused increased challenges for the sector. While the sector-wide project pipeline for production of low-emissions hydrogen operational by 2030 has grown significantly, only a very small amount is either currently operational or under construction.
Green hydrogen
 costs have increased 
significantly, driven by higher renewable costs, 
elevated interest rates and competition for renewable electricity. Blue hydrogen
 costs, 
while also impacted by high inflation, are primarily driven by natural gas costs, which have subsided since the end of 2022. Blue hydrogen costs are expected to be lower than green hydrogen costs in many countries through the rest of this decade and beyond. More subsidies are needed to close the gap between the higher costs of green hydrogen and customers’ willingness to pay to switch away from incumbent fuels.
The global pipeline of carbon capture and 
storage (CCS) projects
i continued to grow in 
2023. But only a relatively small number of projects are actually operating or under construction and, based on past relatively low project completion rates, the current project pipeline appears insufficient to meet the CCS deployment rates consistent with Paris-consistent scenarios
i.2.3%
year-on-year increase in global 
oil 
consumption in 2023b
0.2%
estimated increase in global gas
 
consumption in 2023c
45%
expected year-on-year increase in  annual solar and
 
wind capacity additions 
in 
2023h
Market activity 2023 2022
Global oil consumptionb101.7mmb/d 99.5mmb/d
Global oil productionb102.0mmb/d 100.1mmb/d
Natural gas consumptionj4,071bcm 4,061bcm
Natural gas productionj4,081bcm 4,094bcm
Dated Brent averagek$82.64/bbl $101.32/bbl
West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  averagel$77.67/bbl $94.58/bbl
Urals averagem$61.79/bbl $74.16/bbl
Henry Hub averaged$2.53/mmBtu $6.41/mmBtu
Dutch Title Transfer Facility (TTF)  averagec40.5 euros per MWh ($12.8/mmBtu) 123.1 euros per MWh ($37.7/mmBtu)
Japan-Korea (Asian) LNG averagen$13.8/mmBtu $34.0/mmBtu
Refining marker marging$25.8/bbl $33.1/bblo
i P rojects include capture projects either on a standalone basis or as part of a hub (sharing transport and storage facilities).
j
 I
EA Medium Term Gas Report 2023.
k
 R
efinitiv Data Service (Dated Brent spot price).
l
 R
efinitiv Data Service (West Texas Intermediate).
m
 R
efinitiv Data Service (Urals CIF Rotterdam).
n
 P
latts JKM spot price.
o
 T
he 2022 RMM reflects changes in bp’s portfolio.

Carbon emissions Gt of CO 2ea
10
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Energy outlookEnergy markets continued
The bp Energy Outlook 2023 explored the trends and uncertainties surrounding the energy transition 
out to 2050. The Outlook helps inform bp’s core beliefs about the energy transition.
The scenarios within it explore the possible implications of different judgements and assumptions 
concerning the nature of the energy transition. The uncertainty associated with the transition is substantial, and these scenarios are not predictions of what is likely to happen or what bp would like to see happen. We use the output from these scenarios to inform our strategic thinking.
a C arbon emissions include CO 2 emissions from energy use, industrial processes, natural gas flaring and methane emissions from energy production.
b
 F
or more information on Paris-consistent pathways, see page 14 .New momentum 
New momentum  captures the broad trajectory 
of the current global energy system. It places 
weight on the marked increase in global ambition for decarbonization in recent years, as well as on the manner and speed of decarbonization seen over the recent past. CO
2-equivalent (CO 2e) emissions from energy 
and industrial processes peak in the 2020s, and by 2050 are around 30% below 2019 levels. This scenario is not considered to be a Paris-consistent pathway
b.Net zero 
This scenario represents a shift in societal behaviour and preferences which drive gains in energy efficiency and the adoption of low carbon energy, such that global energy system CO
2e emissions fall by around 95% by 2050 
relative to 2019 levels. This scenario is considered consistent with the Paris goals, broadly aligning with pathways maintaining global temperature rises below 1.5°C.Accelerated 
Accelerated  explores how the energy system 
might change if the world collectively takes action for CO
2e emissions to fall by around 75% 
by 2050 relative to 2019 levels. This scenario is considered consistent with the Paris goals, broadly aligning with well-below-2°C pathways.
Three scenarios to explore the energy transition

11
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373bp Energy Outlook  2023 updates
In January 2023 we published the bp Energy 
Outlook 2023 (2023 Outlook) . This was updated 
from the 2022 Outlook  to consider two major 
developments: the Russia-Ukraine war and the passing of the US Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).
The Russia-Ukraine war was judged likely to 
have a persistent effect on the future path of the global energy system, causing a change in the composition of global energy supplies, reducing economic growth, and increasing countries’ focus on energy security. Also modelled was the IRA, which included a package of largely supply-side measures supporting low carbon energy sources and decarbonization technologies in the US.
In July 2023 we released an additional chapter 
of the bp Energy Outlook , ‘How energy is used’, 
which considers the outlook for the end uses of energy over the next 30 years. This chapter discusses energy use in the transport, industry and buildings sectors of the global economy. 
It showed that, in all three scenarios outlined on 
page 10 , electricity increasingly replaces oil as 
the main energy carrier for light road vehicles in the transport sector. Heavier vehicles also electrify, although hydrogen and biomethane also play a role in some applications. Industry also gradually electrifies, but at a slower rate than transport due to the difficulties of electrifying high-temperature heat, with heavy industry also making use of low carbon hydrogen and bioenergy. In the buildings sector, growth in overall energy demand slows as space heating and cooking appliances become more efficient and energy conservation increases. The share of electricity in the energy used by buildings rises as fossil fuel boilers are replaced by heat pumps and emerging economies phase out traditional biomass.
We plan to continue to update the bp Energy  
Outlook  in response to new developments in 
the energy transition.
bp.com/energyoutlookScenarios for strategic 
decision
 
making
We use scenarios to inform strategy, manage 
risk, and improve decision making.
Some scenarios start from today and project 
forward over a timeframe in which the current structure of the energy system helps to inform the pace and nature of the transition path. Others start in the future, breaking free from the inherent inertia in the energy system, and look back to the present from that new perspective. 
In thinking about appropriate scenarios to 
inform our strategy, we used both approaches.
How scenarios inform our strategy 
The use of scenarios described in the 2023 Outlook , and those from other organizations, 
aids our understanding of the energy transition and helps us to think about how different outcomes might impact our strategy.
The use of a broad range of scenarios to inform 
our strategy supports our efforts to make it robust and resilient to the range of uncertainty we face. 
By considering various time horizons, we can 
identify key milestones or signposts which might emerge over the next five, 10 or 30 years and inform our view of the key sources of uncertainty affecting the global energy system.
We actively monitor for changes in the 
external environment and refresh or review the scenarios as needed in response to these signals, as we did with the Russia-Ukraine war and the impact of the IRA in the 2023 Outlook .
For the purposes of testing the resilience of our strategy to the range of uncertainty in the energy transition, we have used scenarios drawn from other credible sources such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) ‘Climate Scenario Analysis Reference Approach for Companies in the Energy System’, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the International Energy Agency (IEA).
Read more on our resilience analysis and the outcome of that work on page 64How we create scenarios
We quantify a range of scenarios in the 2023 Outlook  using our global energy modelling 
system. This comprises a suite of models to help us understand the supply and demand dynamics of the global energy system.
The modelling framework uses historical data 
based on the Energy Institute’s Statistical Review of World Energy
c, the IEA’s data and 
a range of other data sets.
Each scenario is determined by a set of key 
assumptions, including population and economic growth, pace of technological change, resource constraints and government policies. These are informed by expert views from external organizations including the United Nations, Oxford Economics and Rystad Energy. We benchmark our scenarios against external organizations including the IEA, the IPCC, IHS Markit and the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS).
The modelling techniques used vary by sector 
and include a combination of econometric modelling, least-cost optimization, adoption curves and consumer choice modelling.
c P roduction of the Statistical Review of World Energy passed from bp to the Energy Institute in 2023. It is available online energyinst.org/statistical-review 

12
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Transforming to an integrated energy companyOur strategy in action
We are investing in today’s energy system – while helping build out tomorrow’s. All in service 
of growing the value of bp.
a B ioenergy includes customer-facing and midstream biofuels activities that form part of convenience and mobility.
b
 T
his does not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
c
 A
t Brent $70/bbl 2021 real and bp planning assumptions, and at the upper end of the expected capital expenditure  range  
for the group, the relevant strategic pillar or transition growth engine as applicable.Sustainability
Embedded across our strategy is our sustainability 
frame, which sets out our aims for getting to net zero, improving people’s lives and caring for our planet.Integration
Our trading and shipping business continues to 
be at the core of integrating and optimizing across integrated value chains.
Key
Denotes transition growth engine
TCFD Recommendations and 
Recommended DisclosuresExamples of progress against our strategy in 2023, pages 18-23  
Sustainability at bp, page 48Growth to 2030b
We aim to generate adjusted EBITDA  of $53-58 billionc in 2030.
The aims underpinning this include:
•
 G
rowing adjusted EBITDA from resilient hydrocarbons to $41-44 billionc.
•
 M
ore than doubling adjusted EBITDA versus 2019 in convenience and mobility to $9-11 billionc.
•
 D
elivering $2-3 billionc of adjusted EBITDA from low carbon energy, while establishing the 
foundations of a material business for the decades to come.
•
 D
elivering between $10-12 billionc of adjusted EBITDA from transition growth  engines.Convenience
EV charging
Sustainability
IntegrationTransition growth engines 
BioenergyaHydrogen
Renewables & powerThree strategic pillars 
Our strategy is focused on three key areas of activity.
Oil and gas 
RefiningRetail fuels 
Castrol , aviation, 
B2B/midstreamConvenience  
and mobilityLow carbon  
energyResilient  
hydrocarbons

13
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373d R elative to 2019, we expect our hydrocarbon production to be around 25% lower by 2030 reflecting active management and high-grading of the portfolio, including divestment  
of non-core assets.
e
 2
022 excludes Archaea Energy. 
f
 R
eported to the nearest 50.Performance against our strategy
These are strategic targets and aims we have set against our strategic pillars out to 2025 and 2030. 
Metrics 2023 performance 2025 target 2030 aim
Resilient 
hydrocarbonsUpstream  productiond2.3mmboe/d
2022  2.3mmboe/d~2.3mmboe/d ~2mmboe/d
bp-operated upstream 
plant reliability 95.0%
2022  96%96% >96%
Upstream unit production costs$5.78/boe
2022  $6.07/boe~$6/boe – 
bp-operated refining availability96.1%
2022  94.5%~96% >96%
Biofuels production   32kb/d
2022  27kb/d~50kb/d ~100kb/d
Biogas supply volumes  
 22mboe/d
2022  12mboe/de~40mboe/d ~70mboe/d
LNG portfolio23Mtpa
2022  19Mtpa25Mtpa 30Mtpa
Convenience 
and 
mobilityStrategic convenience sites
f  2,850
2022  2,400~3,000 ~3,500
Customer touchpoints
per day   >12 million
2022  ~12 million>15 million >20 million
Electric vehicle charge points
  >29,000
2022  ~22,000>40,000 >100,000
Low carbon  
e
nergyHydrogen production (net) 
 –– 0.5-0.7Mtpa
Developed renewables to final investment decision
 (net)   6.2GW
2022  5.8GW20GW 50GW
Installed renewables capacity
 (net)   2.7GW
2022  2.2GW– ~10GW

14
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Pursuing a strategy that is consistent with the Paris goalsConsistency with the Paris goals
What we mean by Paris-consistent 
The 2019 CA100+ resolution  requires us to 
disclose the strategy that the board considers in 
good faith to be consistent with the Paris goals.
When we refer to ‘consistency with Paris’ we 
consider this to mean consistency with the world meeting the temperature goal set out in Articles 2.1(a) and 4.1 of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change
. 
The Paris goals, which we support, were reaffirmed under the UAE Consensus at COP28 in December 2023, by the Sharm el-Sheikh Implementation Plan agreed by the Parties at COP27 in November 2022, and the Glasgow Climate Pact agreed by the Parties at COP26 in November 2021.
We believe the world is on an unsustainable 
path, and the carbon budget to meet the Paris goals is running out. 
bp’s strategy is informed by these 
considerations. It is designed to create long-term value for shareholders, while enabling delivery of our net zero ambition – to become a net zero company by 2050 or sooner, and to help the world get to net zero. It is designed to be resilient to the uncertainty of the energy transition across many different potential pathways, including various Paris-consistent pathways.
In the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2021 we 
set out, based on three key principles , why the 
board considers our strategy to be consistent with the Paris goals. Here we set out, on the same three grounds, why the board continues to consider this to be the case.
Informed by Paris-consistent 
energy  
transition scenarios
The speed and nature of the energy transition 
is uncertain, and so we consider a range of scenarios from multiple sources including the bp Energy Outlook  to inform our beliefs about the 
energy transition and to develop and test our strategic thinking. This helps to reinforce our confidence in the robustness and resilience of our strategy to the range of uncertainty we face.    We are confident that our approach is science-based. We see the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as the most authoritative source of information on the science of climate change, and we use it and other sources to inform our strategy. The IPCC highlights that there are a range of global pathways by which the world can meet the Paris goals, with differing implications for regions, industry sectors and sources of energy.
The bp Energy Outlook 2023 updated the 2022 
Outlook to reflect the significant developments in global energy markets over the preceding year, including the possible impact of the Russia-Ukraine war on the pace of the energy transition. It includes three main scenarios –
 
two of which we regard as Paris-consistent 
(Accelerated and Net Zero) – that we use to inform our strategy.
Energy outlook page 10  and  
bp.com/energyoutlook
Strategic resilience
We believe our strategy positions bp for  success and resilience in a Paris-consistent world – a world that is progressing on one of  the many global trajectories considered to be Paris-consistent, and ultimately meets the Paris goals.
The strategy diversifies bp’s portfolio and 
business interests, reducing the risk that challenges facing a single business area might adversely affect bp’s strategic resilience. 
In addition, within the inevitable constraints 
associated with factors such as long-term capital investments, contractual commitments and organizational capabilities at any given time, bp’s ability to maintain its strategic resilience rests, in part, on the governance used to keep the strategy and associated targets and aims under review in light of new information and changes in circumstances.       In our climate-related financial disclosures on page 63 , we describe how we have conducted 
an analysis to test our view of the resilience of our strategy to different climate-related scenarios, using the update on strategic progress presented in February 2023. This includes scenarios that are classified by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to be consistent with well-below 2°C and 1.5°C outcomes
a. 
As further explained on page 64 , while the 
results of any such analysis must be treated with caution overall, this resilience test again reinforced our confidence in the continued resilience of our strategy to a wide range of ways in which the energy system could evolve throughout this decade, including in scenarios consistent with limiting temperature rise to 1.5°C. 
The analysis also again highlighted that, while 
WBCSD data may point towards a broad directional correlation between oil price and the temperature goal with which scenarios are associated, there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent of this correlation. This is demonstrated by the range within, and overlap between, the prices indicated for each scenario family. 
In the version of the WBCSD catalogue used for 
the analysis, the lowest oil price is associated with a 1.5°C scenario; however a number of the 1.5°C and well-below 2°C scenarios have oil prices in 2030 that are substantially higher.  And when compared to bp’s own central oil price case planning assumption for 2030, the oil price in a number of the well-below 2°C scenarios is also higher, supporting our view that our oil price planning assumption is broadly consistent with Paris-consistent scenarios.
a O ur 2023 analysis used data from the WBCSD Climate Scenario Catalogue version 2.0, published on 31 March 2023 and downloaded on 1 February 2024, which includes  
scenarios considered to be consistent with well-below 2°C and 1.5°C outcomes.

15
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Contributes to net zero 
We believe that our strategy enables bp to make 
a positive contribution to the world achieving net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and meeting the Paris goals – outcomes which we believe to be in the best interests of bp as well as beneficial to society generally. 
We see huge opportunity in the energy 
transition – the transformation of the energy system that we believe to be a necessary feature of the world’s efforts to meet the Paris goals. There are many ways a company at the heart of the energy sector can make a meaningful contribution to the world getting to net zero. In addition to investing in and scaling our own lower carbon businesses, these include: policy advocacy and seeking to use the company’s influence with trade associations that conduct climate-related advocacy; low carbon collaboration and support for others in their own decarbonization efforts (such as cities and corporates); and making venturing investments in promising new businesses and technologies that have the potential to contribute to the energy transition. bp seeks to advance these areas through our aims in support of our net zero ambition, including aims 6-10 which are focused on activities which can help the world get to net zero, see page 50 . 
And, as we pursue our strategy, our diversification and the growth of our low carbon businesses may also contribute to helping the world get to net zero. Some ways of contributing are more readily measured by quantitative metrics than others – but all can be important, whether or not they translate into GHG reductions for bp. For example, in Teesside in the UK, we continue to work to advance components of the East Coast Cluster – a vision for decarbonizing local heavy industries at scale, with CO
2 from their emissions taken 
offshore for permanent storage through Northern Endurance Partnership’s carbon capture and storage facilities.
In 2023 two bp-led lower carbon projects, Net 
Zero Teesside Power and H2Teesside, part of the East Coast Cluster, were chosen to proceed to negotiations for government support. bp and Equinor were awarded a carbon storage licence by the North Sea Transition Authority, which will enable the development of further CO
2 storage 
sites. Together with Equinor we now hold four storage licences on behalf of the Northern Endurance Partnership. There is potential to store up to 23 million tonnes of CO
2 a year 
in the southern North Sea by 2035. As a further illustration, in terms of low carbon investment
, by 2030 we aim to increase to 50GW 
the amount of developed renewables to FID , 
supported by the capital expenditure  we plan 
to invest in our transition growth  engines.
This aim supports the Paris goals by increasing the low carbon options available to energy consumers. However, it does not reduce our Scope 1, 2 or 3 emissions. And it may not result in a decrease in the overall carbon intensity of bp’s sold products, because that is dependent on the extent to which we – rather than another party such as a buyer of the developed project – market the resulting renewable power, which is a commercial consideration. Where we do not directly sell that power, our development of the renewables is effectively ‘invisible’ in terms of our GHG metrics.As another example, our aim 6 is to more actively advocate for policies that support net zero, including carbon pricing. Helping policymakers to design and put in place low carbon policies that support the transition to  net zero can help deliver our strategy and capitalize on the huge opportunities associated with achieving the Paris goals, but the benefit  of such advocacy, if successful, extends well beyond any implications for bp’s own GHG metrics. That is because well-designed low carbon policies can also advance the decarbonization of a whole economy – something potentially of far greater impact  than anything a single company can achieve through its own portfolio. We publish examples of our activity in support of aim 6 online at  bp.com/advocacyactivities . 
Responding to increased shareholder interest in Paris consistency
In 2019 the board recommended that shareholders support a special resolution requisitioned by Climate Action 100+ (CA100+) on climate change disclosures. The CA100+ resolution passed with more than 99% of votes cast. This is the fifth year we have included responses throughout the annual report and we have adopted a similar approach to previous years. 
The CA100+ resolution, which includes safeguards such as protections for commercially 
confidential and competitively sensitive information, is on page 373 . Key terms related to this 
resolution response are indicated with 
 and defined in the glossary on page 373 . These should 
be reviewed with the following information.
Element of the CA100+ resolution Related content Where
Strategy that the board considers in good faith 
to be consistent with the Paris goals.Our strategy and business model 12 & 16
Pursuing a strategy that is consistent with the Paris goals14
How bp evaluates each new material capex investment
 for consistency with the 
Paris goals and other outcomes relevant to bp strategy.Our investment process 30
Disclosure of bp’s principal metrics and relevant targets or goals over the short, medium and long term, consistent with the Paris goals.Key performance indicators 24
Sustainability: net zero targets and
 
aims  
See ’TCFD Metrics & Targets’ for an overview49 
 
68
Anticipated levels of investment in:(i)
 O
il and gas resources and reserves.
(ii) O
ther energy sources and technologies.Financial frame: disciplined investment allocation28
Investment in non-oil and gas 31
bp’s targets to promote operational GHG reductions.Sustainability: net zero targets and aims (in table)49
Estimated carbon intensity of bp’s energy products and progress over time.Sustainability: aim 3 49
Any linkage between above targets and
 
executive pay remuneration.Directors’ remuneration report 2023 annual bonus outcome 2024 remuneration policy105 
114 
119

16
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023What makes us  differentOur business model
We believe we have the scale, global presence and expertise to navigate complex markets and manage 
increasingly integrated energy systems.
Our purpose
Guiding what we do and how we operate, our purpose is: 
Reimagining energy
for people and our planetOur strategy
Transforming to an integrated energy company.
Resilient 
hydrocarbonsConvenience 
and mobility Low carbon 
energy
People and resourcesa
These are some of the people and resources in our business model that support how we create and preserve value for our stakeholders.
~10,900
engineers
Sustainability at bp, page 48$16.3bn
capital expenditure
Group performance, page 35
$298m 
invested in research 
and 
development
page 1976,759mmboe
proved hydrocarbon reserves for the group
b
Gas & low carbon energy, page 39 
Supplementary information on oil and natural gas, page 247 
>110 years
in energy
The operating environment, page 8~800
employees on graduate schemes $32.0bn
operating cash flow
~2,500 
granted and pending patent applications held by bp and its
 
subsidiaries 6.2GW
developed renewables  to FID
 (net)
14 years
of bp Energy Outlook 
publicationsIncumbent capability Financial resources
Research and development Energy resources
Energy sector experienceStrategy, page 12
Creating value through integration, pages 18 , 20 and 22
a D ata as at 31 December 2023.
b
 O
n a combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities. See page 345 for more information on bp’s oil and gas reserves including the impact of events occurring  
after the end of the reporting period.

17
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Our business groups
This is how we are organized to deliver our strategy and deliver long-term shareholder value. Our three business groups are supported by four 
integrators to facilitate collaboration and unlock value (innovation & engineering; regions, corporates & solutions; strategy, sustainability & ventures; and trading & shipping), and three teams that serve as enablers of business delivery (finance; legal; and people & culture).
Delivering value for stakeholdersa
We are committed to delivering long-term value for stakeholders.
$4.8bn
total dividends distributed to  
bp shareholders(2022 $4.4bn)
>12m
customer touchpoints  per day
(2022 ~12m)  73%
employee engagement score from the
 
’Pulse annual’
 
employee survey
(2022 70%)
page 71
$11.9bn
corporate income tax and  production tax
 
paid
(2022 $12.5bn)
bp.com/tax$117m
supporting additional initiatives  to benefit communities (2022 $93m)
page 53
$152bn
in payments to suppliers  for
 
goods and services
(2022 $174bn)
page 70Gas & low carbon energy
Integrating our existing natural gas capabilities 
with power trading and growth in low carbon businesses and markets, including wind, solar, hydrogen and carbon capture and storage.Production & operations
The operational heart of bp, producing the hydrocarbon energy and products the world wants and needs – safely and efficiently.Customers & products
Focusing on customers as the driving force  for innovating new business models and  service platforms to deliver the convenience, mobility and energy products and services of today and the future.
Investors and shareholders
Includes our institutional and retail investors.
Customers
Including end-use consumers, B2B customers, and distributors.Employees
Our 87,800 people worldwide.
Governments and regulators
In the countries where we have existing  or planned activities.Society
The people, businesses and environment  in the communities where we work.
Partners and suppliers
Includes relationships with academia,  industry and cities.Alignment with our strategic pillars
How we reconcile our strategic pillars to our reporting segments and business groups, page 3page 39 page 42 page 44

18
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Progress against our strategy
Resilient hydrocarbons 
A resilient oil and gas business is an essential part of our transformation to an integrated 
energy company. Our focus remains on safely delivering value, maximizing returns and cash flow, and reducing emissions.
Transition growth  engines 
Bioenergy:  Demand from our customers for bioenergy is growing. That’s why we are working to scale up our established bioenergy business.  
We are increasing our biogas supply, growing our biofuels production , helping our customers decarbonize and expanding our trading capabilities.
Renewable  gas 
at Archaea Energy
We started up our first Archaea Modular 
Design (AMD) plant in Indiana, US in October 2023. AMD allows the plant to be built on skids with interchangeable components for faster builds. 
The plant converts landfill gas (a form 
of greenhouse gas) by capturing it from  
landfill and converting it to electricity, heat  
or renewable natural gas (RNG). This helps  
to improve local air quality and provide  
lower carbon fuel for homes, businesses  
and transportation. 
It is the first of 15-20 new plants we aim 
to bring online per year through 2025,  
with Archaea Energy production volumes contributing to our 2025 target of around 40mboe/d of biogas supply volumes
 
(see 
page  
13).
3,200scfm
Medora RNG plant processing capacity 
Bingo goes online
Our onshore oil and gas business, bpx energy, invested $1.4 billion in Texas’s Permian Basin in 2023. In August we completed our second central processing facility, Bingo. This follows Grand Slam, which came online in 2021. Methane certification
We became the first energy major to verify the methane intensity
 of its entire US onshore 
operated natural gas portfolio, with bpx energy gaining certification from MiQ, an independent not-for-profit, in March 2023. 
The certification is independently audited and 
gives us a better understanding of methane intensity and source emissions, helping us develop plans to reduce emissions further.
Our aim 4 progress, page  49This is a powerful step forward in 
our net zero journey to capture landfill emissions and provide customers with lower carbon fuel.
Starlee Sykes
CEO Archaea Energy
Bingo in the Permian Basin, Texas, US Archaea Energy RNG plant in Medora, Indiana, US

19
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Transforming  
our refineries
In refining, we expect to drive greater 
competitiveness and value through our digitization and business improvement plans, including maintaining Solomon first quartile  
net cash margin.
At our Cherry Point refinery in Washington, we 
brought online a new vacuum tower and cooling water tower. These upgrades are designed to reduce the refinery’s emissions, as well as helping to improve refinery availability and save maintenance costs.
In addition, we plan to invest in our refineries 
and to target more than double our biofuels co-processing volumes to around 20,000 barrels per day in 2025.Futureproofing  
Trinidad
In Trinidad, we restructured the ownership and commercial framework of the Atlantic LNG joint venture
 with its partners Shell 
and the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago. The restructuring helps provide the certainty required for sanctioning the next wave of upstream
 gas projects and 
secures the long term LNG equity offtake for shareholders including bp.Major  project  
start-ups
We started up four major oil and gas production projects in 2023. 
We expect these projects to contribute more than 
50% towards our target of around 200mboe/d from ten new major projects by 2025.
Mad Dog Phase 2, US
We started up our fifth bp-operated production platform, Argos, in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2023. Our new facility is helping to increase production in the Gulf and has the capacity to produce up to 140mmboe/d gross.
KG D6 MJ, India
In partnership with Reliance Industries Limited, we announced first production from the MJ field in June 2023. This is the third deepwater development brought into production in block KG D6 off the east coast of India. Together, the three fields in KG D6 account for around one third of India’s current domestic gas production and meet approximately 15% of the country’s gas demand.
Tangguh expansion, Indonesia
Tangguh’s Train 3 started up in September 2023. Its production is supporting the growth in supply of LNG, adding around 3.8Mtpa of gross producing capacity to the existing 7.6Mtpa facility, bringing production capacity to around 11.4Mtpa. 
Seagull, UK
In November 2023 we announced first production from the Seagull oil and gas field in the UK North Sea in partnership with Neptune Energy and JAPEX. The project is the first subsea tieback to the Eastern Trough Area Project (ETAP) in 20 years.
Cherry Point refinery, Washington, USSeagull facility in the UK North Seabp has been operating in the 
North Sea for nearly 60 years, delivering a reliable flow of energy, supporting thousands of jobs and a world-class supply chain. We plan to keep doing this by investing in our existing oil and gas infrastructure, like at ETAP.
Doris Reiter
SVP, bp North Sea

20
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Progress against our strategy continued
Convenience and mobility 
By bringing our capabilities and reach in convenience together with EV charging, we aim 
to provide customer-focused, lower carbon transport solutions over time. We are also focused on growth in our differentiated fuels, Castrol , aviation, B2B and midstream 
including biofuels businesses.
Transition growth  engines 
Convenience:  In this growing sector, our scale, premium locations, leading brands and strategic partnerships enable us to deliver differentiated 
offers for our customers. We have a proven track record of resilient gross margin growth against a challenging backdrop, which underpins confidence 
in delivery of our strategy. We will continue to expand our footprint, which the TravelCenters of America  acquisition has accelerated. 
EV charging: This sector is moving at pace, and we see significant value through our focus on fast  charging to on-the-go customers. 
We are focused on the largest EV car parcs across the US, UK, China and Germany, and our joint venture  partnerships in India and Iberia.
US retail boost
We completed the purchase of TravelCenters of America  in May 2023. 
The deal adds a network of around 290 retail sites
 on major highways across the US. 
It is expected to almost doublea our global 
convenience gross margin , supporting 
the growth of our convenience and mobility business. By integrating bp pulse , our fast-
growing EV charging business, 
along with biofuels and renewable natural gas businesses – and in time, hydrogen – we aim to respond to our customers’ changing mobility needs.
Emma Delaney
EVP customers & products
TravelCenters of America retail site in Ohio, USGrowing convenience
We strengthened our strategic convenience 
partnerships and customer offers in 2023.
REWE To Go : bp and Lekkerland extended their 
successful partnership to continue to deliver 
REWE To Go stores at Aral retail sites until 2028.
This is bp’s largest European convenience 
supply agreement and brings together Germany’s largest forecourt brand with one of the country’s leading convenience specialists in support of bp’s convenience transition growth engine delivery.
Auchan, Poland: We signed an agreement 
with leading convenience retailer, Auchan, with plans to add more than 100 stores to our retail network. The partnership supports our aim to grow our strategic convenience sites
 and 
convenience gross margin globally.
BPme:  We strengthened our BPme Rewards 
loyalty scheme with the launch of loyalty 
pricing, giving customers exclusive discounts on retail store products at around 300  
bp-owned retail sites across the UK.
bp retail site in West Sussex, UKa O n an annualized basis when compared with 2022.

21
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373bp pulse  EV charging at the Gigahub  in Birmingham, UKAccelerating EV
We expanded our EV charging network in 2023, and 
demonstrated profitability in our on-the-go business in Germany and our joint venture, bp Xiajou in China.
In the US: We announced a $500 million investment in the  
US over the next two to three years. As part of this, bp pulse  
entered into an agreement with Tesla for the future purchase 
of $100 million of ultra-fast
 chargers that will be installed 
across our bp pulse network in the US. The first time Tesla’s ultra-fast chargers will be deployed on an independent EV charging network.
In the UK: We opened the UK’s largest public EV charging  
hub in partnership with The EV Network and NEC Group in 
September. The Gigahub  is located at the heart of the UK 
motorway network at the NEC campus in the West Midlands, with capacity to charge up to 180 EVs simultaneously.
In Iberia:  In December 2023 we formed a joint venture with 
Iberdrola to accelerate EV charging infrastructure roll-out in 
Spain and Portugal. The joint venture plans to invest up to €1 billion and install 5,000 fast EV charge points
 by 2025 
and around 11,700 by 2030.
SAF in action
We are aiming to be a leading supplier of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), as we look to help decarbonize the aviation sector.
Air bp made its first SAF sale in March 2023. 
The International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) EU SAF was produced through co-processing at our Castellón refinery in Spain. It was first used on a flight from Zaragoza, Spain to North America with LATAM Cargo Chile. This is a milestone in the development of using existing refineries to meet SAF demand produced from sustainable feedstocks.
Supplied by bp and Virent, the first 100% 
SAF-fuelled commercial transatlantic flight flew from London Heathrow to JFK airport in New York in November 2023. Leading  in EV-fluids
In Castrol , our leading position in advanced 
EV-fluids was further strengthened in 2023. Three out of four of the world’s major vehicle manufacturers use Castrol ON products as 
part of their factory fill
b.
And we are investing in our technology centres including a new EV laboratory  
in Shanghai, China and a new laboratory  
in New Jersey, US.
Virgin Atlantic flight before take-off at London Heathrow airport, UK 
b B ased on GlobalData report for 2023 for top 20 selling 
global OEMs (total new vehicles sales).~150%
GWh increase in energy sales volume since 2022

22
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Progress against our strategy continued
Low carbon energy
We plan to create integrated regional hubs, enabled by two of our transition growth 
engines in the hydrogen and renewables & power sectors.
Transition growth  engines 
Hydrogen:  Initially we plan to supply our own refineries – decarbonizing our own operations – as well as sell to local third parties, before increasing  
production to turn these into regional hubs. As markets evolve, we plan to invest in building global export hubs for hydrogen and hydrogen derivatives 
such as ammonia. Here, our experience of moving gas through pipelines, integrating renewables into our portfolio and transporting LNG  on water will accelerate our route to market for hydrogen and ammonia.
Renewables & power: We are focusing our investment in renewables on opportunities where we can create integration value and enhance returns.  
We are evaluating options to build a renewables portfolio in green hydrogen
, e-fuels, EV charging and power trading. This includes building a global 
platform in offshore wind, enabled by our capabilities in large-scale, complex offshore projects, as well as our planned acquisition of Lightsource bp. By combining our power trading and marketing activities into this growth engine, we can integrate through the value chain from generation to customer, enhancing returns, building market position and supporting the decarbonization of electricity.
Transforming  Teesside
In 2023 two bp-led lower carbon projects, Net Zero Teesside Power and H2Teesside, part of the East Coast Cluster, were chosen to proceed to negotiations for government support. 
bp and Equinor were awarded a carbon storage 
licence by the North Sea Transition Authority, which will enable the development of further  
CO
2 storage sites. Together with Equinor we  
now hold four storage licences on behalf of  
the Northern Endurance Partnership. There is potential to store up to 23 million tonnes of CO
2  
a year in the southern North Sea by 2035.This is a huge step forward for these 
transformative projects, which will help drive the region’s low carbon revolution and deliver the UK’s net zero targets. 
Louise Kingham
UK head of country and SVP EuropePeacock Solar 
construction starts
We started construction of our 187MW 
solar project in Texas, US, in mid-2023. The project is planned to come online in the second half of 2024. At full capacity, the installation is expected to generate enough electricity annually to power the equivalent of 34,000 homes. 
Peacock will sell all of the electricity it 
generates under a long-term power purchase agreement, and will also be home to a range of agricultural and biodiversity activities.
This supports our aim to develop 50GW  
of renewable energy capacity to FID
  
by 2030.
Teesside brownfield site, covering 4,500 acres on the banks of the River Tees, UK Peacock Solar in Texas, US 

23
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Helping Japan 
decarbonize  
We signed a memorandum of understanding 
(MOU) with Japan’s second-largest power company, Chubu Electric, to explore opportunities for decarbonization in the country and wider Asia region. 
The MOU includes exploring the feasibility of 
collecting, aggregating, using and transporting CO
2 from major emitters in Japan’s Nagoya port 
to storage sites through a carbon capture and storage hub.
This could help decarbonize a range of the 
port’s carbon-intensive industrial businesses, which account for 3% of Japan’s total emissions, supporting its ambition to cut emissions by 35% by 2030.Lightsource bp  
acquisition 
In November 2023 we agreed to acquire the remaining 50.03% interest in Lightsource bp  
which we did not already own. 
Subject to regulatory approvals, the deal is 
expected to close in the second half of 2024. 
The acquisition aims to scale up Lightsource 
bp and create additional value by applying complementary capabilities and strengths to  
help meet the growing demand for low carbon power from our transition growth engines.
Upgrading 
Fowler Ridge
We completed a major technology upgrade at our Fowler Ridge 1 wind farm in Indiana, US. The upgrade will help the site produce more power, more efficiently and with greater reliability. The new Vestas turbines are expected to produce up to 40% more energy.
The decommissioned blades will be 
recycled, avoiding up to 1,500 tonnes of metal going to landfill. Hydrogen  
in Spain
In 2023 we launched plans for a green hydrogen
 
cluster called HyVal, at our Castellón refinery in the Valencia region of Spain.
This project is a substantial 
upgrade for the wind farm and another investment in bp’s low carbon energy future.
Orlando Alvarez
Chair and president, bp AmericaWe will continue to scale this successful business, 
and also apply its capabilities and expertise to help meet the growing demand for low carbon power from our transition growth engines.
Anja Dotzenrath
EVP gas & low carbon energy
Wind bid wins  
We have been successful in two offshore wind bids in Germany 
– our first in continental Europe. 
We will lead the development, construction and operation 
of these projects, and expect to connect them to the grid by the
 
end of 2030.
Integration opportunity:  We expect the renewable power 
from these projects will support our green hydrogen and  
biofuels production , electric mobility growth and refinery 
decarbonization, as well as wider industry decarbonization in Germany. 
4GW
total potential generating  
capacity from the two sites
Fowler Ridge wind farm in Indiana, US Solar farm in Norfolk, UK

2022 0.1872023 0.274
2021 0.164
2020 0.132
2019 0.1662022 94.52023 96.1
2021 94.8
2020 96.0
2019 94.9
2022 96.02023 95.0
2021 94.0
2020 94.0
2019 94.42022 50 17 332023 39 9 30
2021 62 16 46
2020 70 17 53
2019 98 26 72
Tier 1 process 
safety eventsTier 2 process 
safety events
24
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Key performance indicators
We assess the performance of 
the group across a wide range  
of measures and indicators that are consistent with our strategy.
Our key performance indicators (KPIs) provide  
a balanced set of metrics that give emphasis to both financial and non-financial measures. These help the board and leadership team assess bp’s performance. Our leadership team uses these measures to evaluate operating performance and inform its financial,  
strategic and operating decisions. 
We track tier 1 and tier 2 events and report the 
aggregated outcome. Tier 1 events are losses of primary containment from a process of greatest consequence – causing harm to a member of the workforce, damage to equipment from a fire or explosion, a community impact or exceeding defined quantities (per API RP 754 tier 1 definitions). Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence (per API RP 754 tier 2 definitions).
2023 performance
Our combined process safety events have generally decreased over the last 11 years, apart from in 2019. This downward trend continued in 2023, with 11 fewer (22%) reported than in 2022. 
Reported recordable injury frequency (RIF) 
measures the number of reported work-related employee and contractor incidents that result in a fatality or injury per 200,000 hours worked.
2023 performance 
Our recordable injury frequency (RIF) increased by 47%. A rise in the number of injuries in North America (which we attribute in part to the onboarding of retail operations we acquired including Thorntons ) contributed to this increase. 
Safety, page 69bp-operated refining availability  represents 
Solomon Associates’ operational availability for bp-operated refineries. The measure shows the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after subtracting the annualized time lost due to turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory downtime.
Refining availability is an important indicator of 
the operational performance of our downstream businesses.
2023 performance 
bp-operated refining availability increased to 96.1% in 2023, due to a lower level of unplanned maintenance activity.
bp-operated upstream plant reliability is calculated taking 100% less the ratio of total unplanned plant deferrals divided by installed production capacity, excluding non-operated assets and bpx energy. Unplanned plant deferrals are associated with the topside plant and, where applicable, the subsea equipment (excluding wells and reservoirs). Unplanned plant deferrals include breakdowns, which does not include Gulf of Mexico weather-related downtime.
2023 performance 
Upstream plant reliability in 2023 was slightly lower than in 2022, mainly due to equipment failures associated with major project ramp-ups.Reported recordable injury frequencyab 
 Upstream  plant reliability (%)   Tier 1 and 2 process safety eventsab  Refining availability (%) Safety Sustainable operations
Remuneration 
To help align the focus of our executive 
management and executive directors with the interests of our shareholders, certain measures are used for executive remuneration.
Directors’ remuneration report, page 105
Key
Used for remuneration policy
Performance against strategy, page 13
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosuresa A t the time of publication, the recently acquired US-based Archaea Energy and TravelCenters of America safety reporting 
processes were still being integrated into bp’s safety reporting processes and as such, Archaea Energy and TravelCenters of 
America safety performance data is not included in reported data for 2023.
b
 I
ncludes incidents occurring within bp’s operational HSSE reporting boundary. That boundary includes bp’s own operated 
facilities and joint ventures where bp is the operator. In some cases, we may also provide information about some of our joint venture activities where we are not the operator.

2022 22023 4
2021 7
2020 4
2019 5
2022 6.072023 5.78
2021 6.82
2020 6.39
2019 6.842022
7.62023
(2.5)
2021
(20.3)2020
4.0201912.827.715.2
13.8
(5.7)
10.0
Proﬁt (loss) for the 
year attributable 
to bp shareholdersUnderlying RC proﬁt for the year (non-IFRS)2022 40.92023 32.0
2021 23.6
2020 12.2
2019 25.8
2022
(41.4)2023
36.42021
5.82020
2019(41.7)36.45.9
2.6
36.9
50.1
1.1
ADS basis Ordinary share basis2022
(23.7)2023
8.42021
4.02020
2019(3.8)13.317.8
18.1
(3.0)
30.5
8.9
Proﬁt (loss) for the 
period attributable to bp shareholders 
divided by total equityROACE (non-IFRS)
25
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373We monitor the progress of our major projects  to 
gauge whether we are delivering our core pipeline 
of projects under construction on time.
Projects take many years to complete, requiring 
differing amounts of resource, so a smooth or increasing trend should not be anticipated.
Major projects are defined as those with a bp net 
investment of at least $250 million, or considered to be of strategic importance to bp, or of a high degree of complexity.
2023 performance 
We started up four major oil and gas projects in 2023 – Mad Dog Phase 2 in the US Gulf of Mexico; KG D6 MJ off the east coast of India; the Tangguh expansion in Indonesia; and Seagull in the UK North Sea. 
The upstream unit production cost is calculated  
as production cost divided by units of production. Production cost does not include ad valorem and severance taxes. Units of production are barrels for liquids
 and thousands of cubic feet for gas. 
Amounts disclosed are for bp subsidiaries only and do not include bp’s share of equity-accounted entities.
2023 performance 
Unit production costs decreased, in line with our 2025 target, mainly reflecting the impact of portfolio changes.Underlying RC profit
 (non-IFRS) is a useful 
measure for investors because it is one of the profitability measures bp management uses to assess performance. It assists management in understanding the underlying trends in operational performance on a comparable year-on-year basis. It reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is arrived at by adjusting for inventory holding gains and losses
, net impact 
of adjusting items  and related taxation from 
profit or loss attributable to bp shareholders. 
2023 performance 
Profit for 2023 attributable to bp shareholders includes pre-tax net impairment charges of  $5.7 billion. Reduction in the underlying RC profit reflects lower realizations
, the impact of portfolio 
changes, the impact of lower refining margins and a lower oil trading performance.
Total shareholder return (TSR) represents the change in value of a bp shareholding over a calendar year (American Deposit Share (ADS) in USD, ordinary share in GBP). It assumes that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares at the closing price on the ex-dividend date.
2023 performance
TSR performance reflects increased dividends in 2023.Operating cash flow
 is net cash flow provided  
by operating activities, as reported in the  group cash flow statement. 
2023 performance 
2023 primarily reflects lower realizations, refining margins and oil trading performance and the impact of portfolio changes.
Return on average capital employed (ROACE)
 
(non-IFRS) gives an indication of a company’s 
capital efficiency, dividing the underlying RC profit (loss) after adding back non-controlling interest and interest expense net of tax by the average of the beginning and ending balances of total equity plus finance debt, excluding cash and cash equivalents and goodwill as presented on the group balance sheet over the periods presented.
2023 performance
Profit for 2023 attributable to bp shareholders was $15.2 billion and total equity at 31 December 2023 was $85.5 billion. ROACE for 2023 reflected lower realizations, the impact of portfolio changes, the impact of lower refining margins and a lower oil trading performance.Upstream unit production  
costs  ($/boe)  Total shareholder return (%)   Return on average capital employed  (%) Underlying replacement cost (RC) 
profit ($ billion) Operating cash flow ($ billion)  Major project delivery Financial

30.4
33.2 2.4
41.7 3.8
49.2 5.22022 31.92023
2021 35.6
2020 45.5
2019 54.532.1 31.1 1.0
1.4
Scope 1 (direct) 
emissionsScope 2 (indirect) 
emissions2022 0.052023 0.05
2021 0.07
2020
20190.12
0.14
26
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Key performance indicators 
continued
Key
Used for remuneration policy
Performance against strategy, page 13
TCFD Recommendations and 
Recommended DisclosuresWe report Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions material to our business on a carbon dioxide-equivalent basis. This KPI comprises Scope 1 (from running the assets within our operational control boundary) and Scope 2 (associated with importing electricity, heating and cooling that is bought in to run those operations) data covered by aim 1 (to be net zero across our operations by 2050 or sooner). It comprises 100% of Scope 1 and 2 emissions or activities within bp’s operational control boundary.
2023 performance
Scope 1 (direct) emissions, covered by aim 1, were 31.1MtCO
2e – an overall increase from 
30.4MtCO 2e in 2022. Of these Scope 1 emissions, 
30.2MtCO 2e were CO 2 and 1.0MtCO 2e methanec. 
Overall emissions increased due to temporary operational changes, project start-ups and growth, which was partially offset by delivery of SERs and divestments.
In 2023 our Scope 2 (indirect) emissions, covered 
by aim 1, decreased by 0.4MtCO
2e, to 1.0MtCO 2e, 
compared with 2022d. Lower carbon power 
agreements, including those at our Cherry Point and Whiting refineries, contributed to this decrease.
Basis of calculationf
bp’s reported GHG emissions include methane (CH
4) and carbon dioxide (CO 2). Other GHGs are not 
included as they are not material to our operations. CH
4 emissions are converted to CO 2 equivalent 
using the 100-year global warming potential (GWP) recommended by the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Data is required to be submitted into the bp  
group reporting tool, OneCSR, in accordance  with bp’s Operating Management System (OMS) requirements, broadly based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the Ipieca Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse  Gas Emissions 2nd Edition, May 2011. The responsibility for quantifying and submitting GHG emissions for reporting is assigned to individual  bp facilities and business departments, which  are termed reporting units (RUs).
Aim 1, page 48We define methane intensity  as the amount of 
methane emissions from our upstream oil and gas operations as a percentage of the gas that goes to market from those operations. This applies to methane emissions within our operational control boundary, where we have the highest degree of control. Methane emissions from non-producing activities, such as exploration drilling, are excluded. The 2023 methane intensity is calculated based on the currently used methodology and, while it reflects progress in reducing methane emissions, it will not directly correlate with progress towards delivering the 2025 target under aim 4.
2023 performance
We maintained our methane intensity at 0.05% in 2023
g. Methane emissions from upstream 
operations used to calculate our intensity, increased by around 10% from 28kt in 2022 to 31kt in 2023.
Basis of calculationf
All operated upstream assets report methane (CH 4) 
emissions on a 100% basis, including emissions from operated upstream oil and gas terminals and LNG facilities. Marketed gas production: all upstream gas reaching a market from bp-operated, upstream assets, whether or not this is bp-owned product, and includes gas production from natural gas wells and associated gas from oil production wells. Throughput from bp-operated oil and gas terminals is excluded to avoid double counting despite their associated CH
4 emissions being 
included in the metric. CH 4 data is required to 
be submitted into the bp group reporting tool, OneCSR, in accordance with OMS requirements, broadly based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the Ipieca Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2nd Edition, May 2011. The responsibility for quantifying and submitting  CH
4 emissions for reporting is assigned to 
individual bp facilities and business departments, which are termed RUs.
Aim 4, page 49Greenhouse gas emissionsabcde  
– operational control (MtCO 2e)   Methane intensitybg (%)   Non-financial

2022 1.52023 0.9
2021 1.6
2020 1.0
2019 1.42022 702023 73
2021 64
2020 64
2019 652022
292023
33
2021
252020
20193031323334
33
25
Women in group 
leadershipPeople from beyond the UK 
and US in group leadership
27
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Our people are crucial to delivering our purpose  
and strategy. We aim to recruit talented people from diverse backgrounds, invest in their development and promote an inclusive culture.
Each year we report the percentage of women 
and individuals from countries other than the UK and the US among bp’s group leaders. 
2023 performance
The percentage of women in group leadership increased in 2023, continuing an upward trend  over the previous five years. The percentage of people from beyond the UK and US in group leadership remained at 33%.
Diversity, equity and inclusion, page 71We conduct a ‘Pulse annual’ employee survey to understand and monitor levels of employee engagement and identify areas for improvement.
2023 performance
Our 2023 survey took place in August. Employee engagement increased to 73% (2022 70%). Pride in working for bp also increased from 78%, reported in 2022, to a record 80%. Both numbers are notable given that participation was the highest since the survey began, with an 85% response rate. We continue to build engagement plans based on survey feedback and on real-time updates from our monthly snapshot, ‘Pulse live’.
Employee engagement, page 71This measure includes actions taken by our businesses to improve energy efficiency and reduce methane emissions and flaring – all leading to ongoing, quantifiable GHG reductions. These refer to the GHG emissions on an operational control basis, which comprise 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by bp and would have occurred had we not made the change – they are absolute in nature. From 2019-23 progress against this target was used as a factor in determining bonuses for eligible employees
i, 
including executives.
2023 performance
We delivered 0.9MtCO 2e of SERs from our 
businesses and activities including reducing  Scope 2 emissions by 255ktCO
2e at our Cherry 
Point and Whiting refineries through lower carbon power agreements
d. We also reduced operational 
emissions by 149ktCO 2e at bpx energy through 
ongoing reductions linked to the expansion of  bpx energy’s network of centralization facilities.
Basis of calculationf
See glossary on page 373 for a description.  SERs reported are from reductions that meet  three criteria described in the reporting period. SERs reported include Scope 1 (direct)  CO
2 emission reductions, direct CH 4 emission 
reductions and Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions reductions. The responsibility for calculating and submitting SERs lies with individual bp facilities and business departments, which are termed reporting units (RUs). RUs submit a quarterly breakdown of SERs directly into the bp group reporting tool, OneCSR. The RUs follow a formal GHG data submission sign-off process in OneCSR confirming SERs have been reported in accordance with OMS requirements.Diversity and inclusionj (%)  Employee engagement (%)  Sustainable GHG emissions 
reductionsbh (SERs) (MtCO 2e)  
a  T otal (100%) Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions from source activities operated by bp or otherwise within bp’s operational control boundary. bp’s reported GHG emissions include CH 4 and CO 2. 
Other GHGs are not included as they are not material to our operations.
b
 T
hese are our KPIs for the purposes of our disclosures pursuant to the UK CFD Regulations and Section 414CB (2A) (h) of the Companies Act 2006.
c
 D
ue to rounding some totals may not equal the sum of their component parts. This does not affect the underlying values.
d
 S
cope 2 emissions on a market basis.
e
 S
cope 2 GHG emissions figure for 2022 updated to reflect use of renewable energy in UK and offshore in 2022.
f
 I
ncluded as part of reporting under the Companies (Strategic Report) Climate-related Financial Disclosure Regulations 2022 (The UK CFD Regulations).
g
 M
ethane intensity is currently calculated using our existing methodology and, while it reflects progress in reducing methane emissions, will not directly correlate with progress towards 
delivering the 2025 target under aim 4.
h
  F
or 2024 our sustainability measure is now linked to our operated carbon emissions, which will cover all increases and decreases in those emissions over the year. 
i
 3
6,400 employees were eligible for a cash bonus in 2023 (2022 32,000).
j
 R
elates to bp employees.

28
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Operating within a resilient and disciplined financial frameOur financial frame
For the full year 2023, finance debt increased 
from $46.9 billion at the end of 2022 to $52.0 billion, primarily reflecting net long-term debt issuances. But we reduced net debt
  
from $21.4 billion to $20.9 billion, the lowest  in a decade.
#3 & #4 Disciplined investment allocation
We plan to invest with discipline, driven by value, and focused on delivering returns consistent with our hurdle rates across both our transition growth engines (#3) and our oil, gas and refining businesses (#4). Investment is allocated across our businesses based on a set of criteria that balances strategic alignment, hurdle rates, volatility, integration value, sustainability and risk (see page 30  for more information).
In 2023 capital expenditure was $16.3 billion. We expect capital expenditure to remain around $16 billion per annum between 2024-25. Our capex frame between 2026 and 2030 remains  £14-18 billion per annum. This includes expenditure on inorganic opportunities. #5 Share buybacks
We have simplified and enhanced our share buyback guidance. We are committed to announcing $3.5 billion of share buybacks for the first half of 2024. We plan share buybacks  of at least $14 billion through 2025, at current market conditions and subject to maintaining  a strong investment grade credit rating. This  is part of our commitment, on a point forward basis, to returning at least 80% of surplus cash flow to shareholders. 
We announced share buybacks of $6.5 billion 
from 2023 surplus cash flow. Between the  end of the first quarter 2021 and 31 December 2023, we have reduced our issued share capital by 17%.
In setting the dividend per ordinary share and 
buyback each quarter, the board will continue to take into account factors including the cumulative level of and outlook for surplus cash flow, the cash balance point and maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating.a C ash balance point $40/bbl Brent, $11/bbl RMM, $3/mmBtu Henry Hub, all 2021 real.
b
 F
irst half 2024 buybacks will be announced at the first and second quarter results, subject to board approval. 
c
 A
t current market conditions and subject to maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating.Our disciplined financial frame to 2025 
7.270¢ 
per ordinary share for 4Q23
Resilient $40/bbl cash 
balance  
pointa ‘A’ range 
credit metrics through cycle~$16bn  
2024-25 p.a. capital expenditure
 $3.5bn
1H24b
At 
least$14bn
through 2025cResilient
dividendStrong  investment grade 
  
credit ratingSharebuybacksDisciplined  investment
  
allocation
#1 Capacity for annual increase 
of the dividend per ordinary share 
of ~4% at ~$60/bbl#2 Target further progress on credit metrics within the ‘A’ range through cycle#3 Transition growth
 engines
#4 Oil, gas, refining and other businesses#5 Committed to returning at 
least 80% surplus cash flow
c 
on a point forward basisOur financial frame comprises five clear priorities governing how we intend to allocate cash flow that  
we generate to grow distributions to shareholders, strengthen our balance sheet, and invest with  
discipline to grow the value of bp.
Our five priorities remain unchanged
#1 Resilient dividend
A resilient dividend remains our first priority within our disciplined financial frame. It is underpinned by a cash balance point of around $40 per barrel Brent, $11 per barrel RMM and $3 per mmBtu Henry Hub (all 2021 $ real). 
Since the fourth quarter of 2022 our dividend 
per ordinary share has grown by 10% to 7.270 cents. 
Based on our current forecasts, at around 
$60 per barrel Brent and subject to the board’s discretion each quarter, we expect to have capacity for an annual increase in the dividend per ordinary share of around 4% per annum.
#2 Strong investment grade credit rating
Our second priority is a strong investment grade credit rating. Through the cycle, we are targeting to further improve our credit metrics within an ’A’ grade credit range. 

29
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 3732024 guidance
2023 actual 2024 guidance 
Upstream reported production (guidance is both reported and underlying production ) 2.3mmboe/d Slightly higher than 2023
Total capital expenditure $16.3bn Around $16bn, weighted to the first half
Depreciation, depletion and amortization $15.9bn Slightly higher than 2023
Divestments and other proceedse$1.8bn $2-3bn, weighted towards the second half
Gulf of Mexico oil spill paymentsf (pre-tax) $1.3bn ~$1.2bn including $1.1bn pre-tax to be paid 
during the second quarter
Other businesses & corporate underlying annual charge $0.9bn Around $1.0bn
Underlying effective tax rate 39%gAround 40%h
a B y 2025. $70/bbl (2021 real), at bp planning assumptions.
b
 A
t current market conditions and subject to maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating. 
c
 B
y 2025 and versus 2019.
d
 B
y 2025.
e
 D
ivestment proceeds  are disposal proceeds as per the group cash flow statement. See page 37  for more information on divestment and other proceeds.
f
 S
ee Financial statements – Note 22 for more information on payables related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
g
 N
earest equivalent GAAP IFRS measure: effective tax rate 33%.
h
 U
nderlying effective tax rate  is sensitive to the impact that volatility in the current price environment may have on the geographical mix of the group’s profits and losses.Six near-term priorities
We are focused on growing the value of bp, underpinned by six near-term priorities.
Improve safety and 
reduce emissions
Safety is our number one priority. And 
we are working towards our aim for  net zero operations
Deliver growth projects
Progressing next set of projects to provide growth through to the end of this decade and into the nextDrive focus into 
the business 
Actively manage our portfolio,  
continued high-grading
Optimize returns
Targeting >18% return on average capital employed
 in 2025aDeliver next wave 
of efficiency
Using technology and global capability 
hubs to increase margin while decreasing spend
Grow shareholder returns
Committed to returning at least  80% of surplus cash flow
b through 
share buybacks
Measured by
continued improvement 
in safety metricsreduction in operating emissions
c, 0.20% 
methane intensity  
target based on measurement approach
c20%
upstream  plant 
reliabilitydrefining availabilityd 96% ~96%
capital expenditure  
for 2024-25 p.a.~$16bn1
42
53
6

30
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Our investment process
How we use price assumptions 
Our price assumptions are used for our 
investment appraisal processes. They are also used to inform decisions about internal planning and the value-in-use impairment testing of assets for financial reporting. 
The role of price assumptions 
As part of our regular strategy review, we consider our portfolio and capital requirements to deliver the strategy. This work (and, where applicable, our decisions on individual investments) is informed by our view of the price environment and considers the balanced investment criteria discussed below. 
Our price assumptions continue to reflect 
a range of possibilities, including that the transition to a lower carbon economy and energy system could accelerate. Our investment appraisal assumptions, which take a long-term perspective, focus on the fundamental trends affecting the energy sector and our businesses. 
Throughout 2023 we held our key investment 
appraisal price assumptions constant at the levels set out in the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2022 . For relevant investment cases 
assessed in 2024, we have applied and plan to apply the prices shown in the key investment appraisal assumptions table (right) for our central price case. Brent oil and Henry Hub  gas assumptions average around $64/bbl and $4.0/mmBtu respectively (2022 $ real) from 2024 to 2050. We consider these prices to be broadly consistent with a range of transition paths compatible with meeting the Paris goals, but they do not correspond to any specific Paris-consistent scenario. We also consider a range of other price assumptions for our investment appraisal, including product- and market-specific prices relevant to individual investment cases. 
We continue to apply carbon prices rising to 
$100/tCO
2e in 2030 and $250/tCO 2e by 2050 
(2021 $ real) in certain cases (see box on the right). In 2022 $ real terms, this corresponds to $108/tCO
2e by 2030 and $270/tCO 2e by 2050.Impairment testing
Our best estimate of future prices for use in value-in-use impairment testing continues to be based on our investment appraisal price assumptions, with quarterly review of near-term prices to confirm that the assumptions appropriately reflect any changes to expectations due to short-term market trends.
Impairment price assumptions were held 
constant in 2023 at the levels disclosed in the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2022 until the fourth quarter, when the updated investment  appraisal price assumptions shown below were used for value-in-use impairment testing.For investment appraisal, potential future operational emissions costs that may be borne by bp as a result of an investment are included as bp costs, as described in the box below (generally without assuming incremental revenue associated with those emissions), in order to incentivize engineering solutions that reduce operational carbon emissions on projects. For the treatment of emission cost assumptions in value-in-use impairment testing, see Financial statements – Note 1.
Key investment appraisal assumptionsa 
2022 $ real
2025 2030 2040 2050
Brent oil ($/bbl) 70 70 63 50
Henry Hub gas ($/mmBtu) 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
Refining marker marginb ($/bbl) 14 14 11 8.5
In addition to the prices shown we also test whether investments meet our return expectations (see page 32 ) using a $60/bbl Brent 
oil price series.
Carbon price (US$/tCO 2e) 
2022 $ real
2025 2030 2040 2050
Carbon 54 108 216 270
a T he values in the table represent the central case. 
b
 T
he disclosed RMM assumption in the table excludes carbon pricing impacts and assumes a normalized cost of renewable 
identification numbers (RINs).
Investment process price assumptions
All investments are evaluated against relevant 
price assumptions for oil, natural gas, refining margins or other commodities across a range of alternative price or margin series (typically a central, upper and lower series). In addition, all investment cases with anticipated annual operational GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2)above 20,000 tonnes of CO
2 equivalent (bp net 
basis) must estimate those anticipated GHG emissions and include an associated carbon cost in the investment economics, using the carbon prices above. 
Our investment price assumptions place some 
weight on scenarios in which the transition to a low carbon energy system is sufficiently rapid to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement, as well as scenarios in which the transition may not be sufficiently rapid. They also place some weight on a range of other factors that can drive prices, and which are not directly related to the Paris goals. These price assumptions do not link to specific scenarios or outcomes, but  instead try to capture the range of different possibilities surrounding the future path  of the global energy system. The nature of  the uncertainty means that the price  ranges inevitably reflect considerable judgement. The ranges are reviewed and updated as necessary, as our understanding  of and judgements about the energy  transition evolve. 
In addition to consideration of a range of  
price assumptions, investment cases also assess the impact of alternative assumptions covering other selected variables relevant to the economics of the investment. These variables may include cost, resource, policy changes and schedule, or other areas of uncertainty, to assess the robustness of investment cases to a range of other factors.
Key
Information that supports TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in relation to Metrics and Targets

31
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Investment governance and 
evaluating consistency with the
 
Paris
 
goals
Governance framework
bp’s framework for investment governance 
seeks to ensure that investments align with our strategy, can be accommodated within our prevailing financial frame, and add shareholder value. It enables investments to be assessed in a consistent way against a range of criteria relevant to our strategy, including environmental and other sustainability criteria. 
Investments follow an integrated stage-gate 
process designed to enable our businesses to choose and develop the most attractive investment cases. A balanced set of investment criteria is used (see page 32 ). This allows for the 
comparison and prioritization of investments across an increasingly diverse range of business models. 
The governance framework specifies that 
proposed investments are evaluated using relevant assumptions, including carbon prices for projected operational emissions where applicable. It also sets out requirements for assurance by functions independent of the business before a final investment decision (FID) is taken. 
The role of the board
The board assesses capital allocation across the bp portfolio, including the level and mix of capital expenditures and divestments, strategic acquisitions, distribution choices and deleveraging, as well as reviewing certain investment cases for approval.
Resource commitment meeting 
For acquisitions and organic capital investments above defined financial thresholds, investment approval is conducted through the executive-level resource commitment meeting (RCM), which is chaired by the chief executive officer. The RCM reviews the merits of each investment case against a balanced set of criteria (see page
 
32) and considers any key 
issues raised in the assurance process. 
The CA100+ resolution  requires bp to disclose 
how we evaluate the consistency of new 
material capex investments  with (i) the Paris 
goals and (ii) a range of other outcomes relevant to bp’s strategy.
bp’s evaluation of the consistency of such 
investments with the Paris goals was undertaken by the RCM for new material capex investments sanctioned in 2023 (see page 34 ).
bp’s evaluation of an investment’s consistency with ‘a range of other relevant outcomes’ is achieved by considering its merits against bp’s balanced investment criteria, described on page
 
32. bp board
Reviews and approves investment cases 
of more than $3 billion for resilient 
hydrocarbons, more than $1 billion for all 
transition or low carbon investments  and 
any significant inorganic acquisition that is 
exceptional or unique in nature.
Resource commitment meeting
Forum for executive management’s approval 
of investments related to existing and new 
lines of business above $250 million or $25 
million for acquisitions, or which exceed the 
relevant EVP’s financial authority, and any 
project considered strategically important 
such as a new market entry.
Investment allocation committees
EVP-level forums to review investment 
cases within a business group as per 
individual EVP financial authority (up to 
$250 million, or typically $25 million for 
acquisitions).
Business group investment 
governance  
meetings
SVP-level forums which review investment 
cases within a business group, enabler 
or integrator up to the individual SVP’s 
financial authority.
Cross-group meetings
Forums that facilitate discussions across 
businesses and functions, to support project 
development, sensitivity analysis, integration 
opportunities and risk assessment ahead 
of investment committee meetings.
Investment in non-oil and gas 
Our aim 5 is to increase the proportion of investment we make into our non-oil and gas businesses. Aim 5 aligns with our transition growth investment
. In 2023 transition growth 
investment was $3.8 billion, compared to $4.9 billion in 2022. The change from 2022 reflects lower inorganic investment in our transition growth engines, outweighing an increase in organic investment into them over the year (see  page 49 ).
Bioenergy:  Following our 2022 acquisition of 
Archaea Energy, and continued growth through 2023, Archaea started up its modular design renewable natural gas (RNG) plant in Medora, Indiana in October 2023 (see page 18 ).
EVs:  Together with our strategic convenience 
site networks, our investment in EV charging  is helping us to offer low carbon solutions to customers. In 2023 we continued to rapidly build scale in our EV charging network in key markets including China, the UK, Germany and the US (see page
 
21). We also announced a new 
global mobility agreement with Uber, which will see us work together to help accelerate Uber’s commitment to becoming a zero-tailpipe emission mobility platform in the UK, US, Canada and Europe by 2030 and globally by 2040. 
Convenience:  In 2023 we had 2,850 strategic 
convenience
 sites, and aim to have around 
3,000 by 2025. In May 2023 we acquired 
TravelCenters of America, a leading travel  centre operator in the US, with a network of around 290 sites strategically located on major highways across the country (see page 20 ).
Hydrogen:  We aim to build a leading global 
position in hydrogen – initially by supplying our own refineries and then scaling up to meet growing customer demand. In parallel, as markets evolve, we aim to develop global export hubs for hydrogen and its derivatives. In 2023 we announced a $12.5 million investment in  the hydrogen electrolyzer innovator, Advanced Ionics. This investment is expected to help  drive Advanced Ionics’ growth and facilitate the initial deployment of its Symbion™ water vapour electrolyzer technology for heavy industry. The company’s water vapour electrolyzer helps reduce the cost and electricity requirements of green hydrogen
 production. In the Valencia 
region of Spain, we launched plans for a green hydrogen cluster called HyVal, at our Castellón refinery (see page 23 ).
Renewables & power: In 2023 we were awarded the rights to develop two offshore wind projects in the German tender round. The two North Sea sites have a total potential generating capacity of 4GW (see page 23 ). We also announced our 
joint venture
 with Deep Wind Offshore to 
develop opportunities in South Korea, acquiring a 55% stake in the company’s early-stage offshore wind portfolio. This includes four projects with a combined potential generating capacity of up to 6GW. In Texas, US, we started construction work on the 187MW Peacock Solar project (see page 22 ). And in November 2023 
we agreed to acquire the remaining 50.03% interest in Lightsource bp, which we did not already own (see page 23 ). 
Low carbon activity investment 
In 2023 low carbon activity investment , a 
subset of our total aim 5 transition growth investment, accounted for 67% of our total aim 5 investment (80% in 2022). It decreased from more than $4 billion in 2022 to more than $2.5 billion in 2023, reflecting the impact of large low carbon acquisitions in 2022. Most of this investment was in biogas, offshore wind, EV charging and hydrogen. Our current business plans see low carbon activity
 comprising 
more than 80% of our aim 5 spend by 2030.

32
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Our investment process continued
Balanced investment criteria
All investment cases must set out their 
investment merits and are considered against a set of six balanced investment criteria –although investment decisions may also take other factors into account as appropriate. This standardized approach is intended to create a level playing field for decision making and allows portfolio-wide comparisons of investment cases. The decision to endorse an investment based on the information provided represents our evaluation that it is consistent with what the 2019 CA100+ resolution
 refers 
to as ‘a range of other outcomes relevant to bp’s strategy’. 
The six  balanced investment criteria are:
Strategic alignment:  For all investment cases, 
we consider whether the investment supports 
delivery of our strategy, including our net zero aims. We also assess if the investment case involves distinctive capability that bp has, or intends to develop, and whether it adds to an existing ‘scale’ business within the portfolio or could help us create one. 
Safety and risks: For all investment cases, 
we provide an assessment of the key risks to the investment that have a significantly higher probability than usual or have a significantly greater impact (relative to the size of the project) were they to occur. Safety risk management at bp is underpinned by our Operating Management System (OMS)
 that is designed 
to help us sustainably deliver safe, reliable and compliant bp operations. 
Sustainability:  For all investment cases, 
we consider how any proposed business 
opportunity is connected to the energy transition, societal needs and the environment. This approach is underpinned by our purpose and sustainability frame. All RCM cases must consider significant impacts of an investment on key sustainability aims, informed by our sustainability assessment template for investment cases (for our use of carbon prices, see box on page 30 ).Investment economics: For all investment cases, we consider investment economics against a range of relevant measures. Depending on the nature of the investment case, these may include return expectations (internal rate of return or IRR), net present value, discounted payback, and profitability index, reflecting assumptions about relevant commodity prices, margins and carbon prices (see page
 
30). The forward economics 
of an investment case are considered against the differentiated IRRs, applicable to that case at the time of the investment decision, depending on the business. We also refer to these expectations as hurdle rates, although as noted, each case is assessed according to its combined merit against our full set of balanced criteria. 
1.
 F
or our resilient hydrocarbons portfolio,  
we seek a payback of less than 10 years  
for upstream oil and refining and 15 years  for upstream gas; together with an IRR of 15-20%. 
2.
 F
or bioenergy, we seek an IRR in excess 
of 15%.
3.
 F
or our convenience and EV charging 
businesses, we seek portfolio-level returns  in excess of 15%. 
4.
 F
or our hydrogen investments, we expect 
double-digit (unlevered) IRR.
5.
 F
or renewables investments, we seek 
an unlevered IRR of 6-8%. 
For each investment, the relevant return expectations above are assessed using our central price assumptions. For additional capital discipline for investments in oil and gas production, we also compare the central price hurdle above (15-20%) to a case in which the Brent oil price starts at $60/bbl and later declines to the level of our key appraisal assumptions by 2050 (see page 30 ). In addition, 
for investments in our oil and gas and refined products businesses, as well as any other investments that do not fall within one of the specific businesses set out above, we also compare the IRR in our lower-price case to a cost of capital hurdle rate. Volatility and rateability:  Our investment 
economics metrics also consider the degree of uncertainty of the cash flows when considering investment cases. For example, some cases have more certainty of future costs and revenue projections. Variation in net present values for the key variables in an investment case are quantified by sensitivity analysis to give a range of potential outcomes against our key investment hurdles. 
Optionality and integration:  Our assessment 
considers the degree of optionality offered by 
a project – the ability to adapt our business to changing circumstances. This could be an option to sell a product with a floor price, or the right to purchase additional equity in a joint venture at specific terms. Other types of options include the right to develop (or not develop) extensions to existing projects, or to change the course of a project’s development depending on market circumstances. We likewise seek out integration along value chains across multiple products, services, geographies and customers. For example, our gas production can supply liquefaction plants whose LNG is monetized by our trading business. Likewise, future carbon sequestration projects may allow us to add value to our gas production by converting it to low carbon power.

Investment economics
Against central price economicsSustainabilityb
Against operational carbon intensity
Guide GuideInvestments with
intensity guide levelNo intensity
guide level
n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
33
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Paris consistency evaluation process
Our new material capex investments  are 
intended to support the delivery of bp’s strategy.
For evaluations conducted in 2023, investments 
in scope for evaluation were defined as: 
•
 N
ew: investment in a new project or 
extension of an existing project/asset or 
share of an entity that is new to bp or a substantial increase in bp’s share. 
•
 M
aterial:  more than $250 million capex 
investment. 
We evaluated new material capex investment using our central price assumptions (see  page 30 ), and, where applicable, using our 
lower-price case. Where relevant the evaluation also incorporated our carbon price assumptions, applied to the anticipated operational GHG emissions associated with  the investment, through to 2050. Quantitative evaluations
For our investment economics and sustainability investment criteria we considered quantitative guide levels, as set out below, to inform the evaluation of each investment’s consistency with the goals of the Paris Agreement. As was the case last year, we have again lowered our operational carbon intensity guide levels in line with our decreasing portfolio average. As our approach matures with experience, we may continue to adjust or supplement our methodology. There may be instances when new material capex investments are evaluated as consistent with the Paris goals despite either the economic or sustainability guide levels not being met. The RCM may also take account, in its Paris consistency evaluation, of the six balanced investment criteria (above) using qualitative assessments.
Evaluation outcome 
In 2023 there were nine new material capex investments approved. All were evaluated as being consistent with the Paris goals. 
a T he 2023 investments have been compared to relevant guides (as applicable to the evaluation of each investment) and are 
presented here in order of the ratio to the relevant central-price case IRR guide level, and separately in order of the ratio to the 
relevant emissions intensity guide level. As a result, the evaluations against the economic and sustainability benchmarks do not necessarily follow the same order.
b
 F
or five of the investments, we do not have an applicable carbon intensity guide level for the relevant business. Investment economics: We calculated 
economic indicators using our central price,  and where applicable, our lower price cases,  and applying our carbon price assumptions to relevant operational GHG emissions. (For our key central case oil and natural gas price assumptions, see page 30 , where we also set 
out our view on their consistency with achieving the Paris goals). We then compare the economic indicators to the relevant economic guide level (see below), based on the corresponding hurdles presented ( page
 
32). 
We typically target a threshold of >1.0x the relevant IRR guide level, and <1.0x any relevant payback guide level.
Sustainability:  Where appropriate, we 
compared the expected operational carbon 
intensity
 of the investment relative to that 
of the portfolio average shown in the bp Sustainability Report 2022  for the segment or 
the related business activity (upstream and refining). We normally target a ratio of less than 100%, meaning that the investment is expected to reduce the average operational carbon intensity of the relevant portfolio. The potential impact of new material capex investments on bp’s net zero aims is a further consideration.
Evaluation of investment performance against quantitative guide levelsa
All nine investments met the relevant IRR guide level as shown in the chart. 
The four upstream hydrocarbon projects had emissions intensities below the relevant upstream intensity guide level. Five of the investments did not 
have an applicable carbon intensity guide for the relevant business. These investments are shown as ‘n/a’ in the operational carbon intensity chart.

34
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Decisions taken in 2023
In 2023 there were nine new material capex investment decisions evaluated for Paris consistency:Our investment process continued
Argos Gulf of Mexico 
The Argos Southwest Extension project aims 
to deliver production from a new drill centre in the Mad Dog field, tied back to existing equipment with subsea infrastructure. Argos is our most digitally advanced platform operating in the Gulf of Mexico, and is key to our strategy of building capacity to produce around 400,000boe/d. We expect volumes to average around 350,000boe/d through the second half of the decade.Oman Block 61 
The investment involves the development and construction of a wellsite for a large number of wells and flowlines in Oman. The programme supports delivery of supply commitments and enables optimal depletion of the reservoir.Murlach Redevelopment 
Murlach is a two-well subsea tieback to existing infrastructure in the North Sea. The use of existing infrastructure is expected to help keep down development costs and operational carbon intensity, which is expected to be significantly below bp’s average for its upstream operations. 
TravelCenters of America 
bp completed its purchase of TravelCenters of America, one of the biggest networks of highway travel centres in the US, adding a network of around 290 sites, strategically located on major highways across the US. The deal is expected to almost double
a our 
global convenience gross margin  and, over 
time, brings potential growth opportunities in four of our five transition growth engines. 
Power and gas supply acquisition
bp has agreed to acquire GETEC ENERGIE GmbH, a leading independent supplier of energy to commercial and industrial (C&I) customers, with operations in Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Belgium, and Poland. On completion the acquisition will significantly expand our European power and gas C&I supply presence.bp pulse On-The-Go US
bp continued to advance its growth strategy in EV charging, approving a programme of investment of $500 million in EV charging infrastructure in the US, including an agreement with Tesla for the future purchase of $100 million of ultra-fast
 
chargers in the US. The investment will facilitate the expansion of the bp pulse  
public network across the US, while also enabling support for EV fleet customers by deploying chargers at their private depots.
Offshore German wind auction
bp was awarded the rights to develop two offshore wind projects in the North Sea in Germany, marking our entry into offshore wind in continental Europe. We expect renewable power from these projects to support our green hydrogen and biofuels production
, electric mobility growth and 
refinery decarbonization, as well as wider industry decarbonization in Germany. Raven Infills 
The Raven Infills Project is a two-well subsea tieback to existing Raven infrastructure in Egypt. The project’s expected operational carbon intensity is significantly below bp’s average for upstream operations. 
Lightsource bp acquisition
Subject to regulatory approval, bp agreed to acquire the remaining 50.03% interest in Lightsource bp, one of the world’s leading developers and operators of utility-scale solar and battery storage assets. Lightsource bp operates with a capital-light, ‘develop, engineer, construct and farm down’ business model, which is designed to create value by selling interests in developed assets to strategic partners. The acquisition is expected to help meet growing demand for low carbon power from our transition growth
 engines. 
a O n an annualized basis when compared with 2022.

35
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Group performance
A year of delivery
Financial and operating performance
$ million except per share 
amounts
2023 2022 2021
Sales and other operating revenues 210,130 241,392 157,739
Profit before interest and tax 27,348 18,039 18,082
Finance costs and net finance income/expense relating to 
pensions and other post-retirement benefits (3,599) (2,634) (2,855)
Taxation (7,869) (16,762) (6,740)
Profit (loss) for the year 15,880 (1,357) 8,487
Non-controlling interest (641) (1,130) (922)
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders 15,239 (2,487) 7,565
Inventory holding (gains) losses , before tax 1,236 (1,351) (3,655)
Taxation charge (credit) on inventory holding gains and losses (292) 332 829
Replacement cost (RC) profit (loss) 16,183 (3,506) 4,739
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting itemsa, before tax (1,143) 29,781 8,697
Total taxation charge (credit) on adjusting items (1,204) 1,378 (621)
Underlying RC profit 13,836 27,653 12,815
Adjusted EBIDA 34,345 45,695 30,783
Adjusted EBITDA 43,710 60,747 37,315
Dividend paid per ordinary share (cents) 27.760 22.932 21.420
Dividend paid per ordinary share (pence) 22.328 18.624 15.538
Profit (loss) per ordinary share (cents) 87.78 (13.10) 37.57
Profit (loss) per ADS (dollars) 5.27 (0.79) 2.25
Underlying RC profit per ordinary share  (cents) 79.69 145.63 63.65
Underlying RC profit per ADS  (dollars) 4.78 8.74 3.82
Adjusting itemsa
Gains on sale of businesses and fixed assets 361 3,866 1,851
Net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and
 
fixed assets (5,838) (5,920) 1,123
Environmental and other provisions (647) 325 (1,536)
Restructuring, integration and rationalization costs 37 34 (249)
Fair value accounting effects (FVAEs)b9,403 (3,501) (8,075)
Rosneft — (24,033) (291)
Gulf of Mexico oil spill (57) (84) (70)
Other (1,711) (43) (668)
Total before interest and taxation 1,548 (29,356) (7,915)
Finance costs (405) (425) (782)
1,143 (29,781) (8,697)
Adjusting items total taxation 1,204 (1,378) 621
2,347 (31,159) (8,076)
a S ee page 337 for more information.
b
 S
ee page 338 for information on the cumulative impact of FVAEs.bp delivered strong 
underlying financial performance in 2023 – we raised the dividend per ordinary share by 10% to 7.270 cents for the second quarter of 2023 and bought back $7.9 billion of shares. We remain focused on strengthening the balance sheet. As we look forward, we are staying disciplined, tightening our capital expenditure frame and simplifying and enhancing our share buyback guidance through 2025.
Kate Thomson 
Chief financial officer$15.2bn $13.8bn $32.0bn
profit attributable to bp shareholders  
(2022 loss $(2.5)bn)underlying replacement cost (RC) profit
(2022 profit $27.7bn)operating cash flow
(2022 $40.9bn)

36
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Group performance continued
At 31 December 2023 the group's reportable 
segments are gas & low carbon energy, oil production & operations and customers & products. Each is managed separately, with decisions taken for the segment as a whole, and represent a single operating segment that does not result from aggregating two or more segments. See Financial statements – Note 5 Segmental analysis. 
Results 
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2023 attributable to bp shareholders was $15.2 billion, compared with a loss of $2.5 billion in 2022. Adjusting for inventory holding losses, RC profit was $16.2 billion, compared with a loss of $3.5 billion in 2022.
After adjusting RC profit for a net impact of 
items, which bp has classified as adjusting (adjusting items) of $2.3 billion (on a post-tax basis), underlying RC profit for the year ended 31 December 2023 was $13.8 billion. The result reflected lower realizations, the impact of portfolio changes, the impact of lower refining margins and a lower oil trading performance.
For 2022, after adjusting RC profit for a net 
adverse impact of adjusting items of $31.2 billion (on a post-tax basis), underlying RC profit was $27.7 billion. The result reflected higher gas
 
and liquids realizations and higher refining 
margins, partially offset by higher tax and the absence of bp’s share of earnings from Rosneft.
For a discussion of bp’s financial and operating 
performance for the years ending 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2022, see bp's Annual Report and Form 20-F 2022 , pages 32-44.
Adjusting items
In 2023 the net favourable pre-tax impact of items, which bp has classified as adjusting (adjusting items) was $1.1 billion including:
•
 Fa
vourable fair value accounting effects 
(FVAEs) relative to management’s measure 
of performance of $9.4 billion primarily due to a decline in the forward price of LNG during 2023. Under IFRS, reported earnings include the mark-to-market value of the hedges used to risk-manage LNG contracts, but not of the LNG contracts themselves. The underlying result includes the mark-to-market value of the hedges but also recognizes changes in value of the LNG contracts being risk managed. The impacts of FVAEs relative to management’s internal measure of performance are provided on page 338.•
 N
et impairment charges of $5.7 billion 
largely
 
as a result of changes in the group’s 
price and discount rate assumptions, activity
 
phasing and economic forecasts 
(in
 
particular related to the Gelsenkirchen 
refinery).
•
 I
n addition, $1.3 billion net impairment 
charges were reported through equity-accounted earnings (reported within the ‘other’ category), of which $1.1 billion relates
 
to our US offshore wind projects.
In 2022 the net adverse pre-tax impact of adjusting items was $29.8 billion including:
•
 A p
re-tax charge of $24.0 billion relating to 
bp’s decision to exit its 19.75% shareholding 
in Rosneft. 
•
 A
dverse FVAEs relative to management’s 
measure of performance of $3.5 billion primarily arising from an increase in forward gas prices during the year and the changes in the fair value of derivatives entered into by the group to manage currency exposure and interest rate risks relating to hybrid bonds. Under IFRS, reported earnings include the mark-to-market value of the hedges used to risk-manage LNG contracts, but not of the LNG contracts themselves. The underlying result includes the mark-to-market value of the hedges but also recognizes changes in value of the LNG contracts being risk managed. The impacts of FVAEs relative to management’s internal measure of performance are provided on page 338 .
•
 N
et impairment charges of $4.8 billion 
principally as a result of expected portfolio changes in our oil production & operations segment, the annual review of price assumptions used for investment appraisal and value-in-use impairment testing and the annual review of discount rates used for impairment tests; partially offset by 
•
 A n
on-taxable gain of $1.9 billion arising from 
the contribution of bp's Angolan business to Azule Energy. 
See Financial statements – Note 4 for more information on impairments, and pages 337 and 338 for more information on adjusting items and FVAEs. 
Taxation
The charge for corporate income taxes was $7,869 million in 2023 compared with $16,762 million in 2022. The decrease mainly reflects lower taxable profits. The effective tax rate (ETR) on the profit before taxation for the year in
 
2023 was 33%, compared with 109% in 2022. The ETR on the profit before taxation for the
 
year in 2023 was impacted by fair value 
accounting effect gains and other adjusting items. The ETR on the profit before taxation for the year in 2022 was impacted by the pre-tax charges relating to bp’s decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft, and the UK Energy Profits Levy. Excluding inventory holding impacts and adjusting items, the underlying ETR
 in 2023 was 39% compared with 34% in 
2022. The underlying ETR in 2023 is higher due to changes in the geographical mix of profits and the increased impact of the UK Energy Profits Levy. The underlying ETR for 2024 is expected to be around 40% but is sensitive to the impact that volatility in the current price environment may have on the geographical mix of the group’s profits and losses. Underlying ETR is a non-IFRS measure. A reconciliation to
 
IFRS information is provided on page 382 .
Outlook for 2024
2024 guidance
• b p expects both reported and underlying 
upstream production  to be slightly higher 
compared with 2023. Within this, bp expects 
underlying production from oil production & operations to be higher and production from gas & low carbon energy to be lower. 
•
 I
n its customers business, bp expects 
continued growth from convenience, including a full-year contribution from TravelCenters of America, a stronger contribution from Castrol  underpinned by 
volume growth in focus markets, and continued margin growth from bp pulse  
driven by higher energy sold. In addition, bp expects fuel margins to remain sensitive to the cost of supply. 
•
 I
n products, bp expects a lower level of 
industry refining margins, with realized margins impacted by narrower North American heavy crude oil differentials. bp expects refinery turnaround activity to have a similar impact on both throughput and financial performance compared to 2023, with phasing of activity in 2024 heavily weighted towards the second half. 
•
 b
p expects the other businesses & corporate 
underlying annual charge to be around $1.0 billion for 2024. The charge may vary from quarter to quarter.

37
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Operating cash flow
Operating cash flow for the year ended 
31 December 2023 was $32.0 billion, $8.9 billion lower than 2022. Compared with 2022, operating cash flows in 2023 primarily reflected lower realizations, refining margins and oil trading performance and the impact of portfolio changes. 
Movements in working capital
 adversely 
impacted cash flow in the year by $3.3 billion, 
including an adverse impact from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill of $1.2 billion. Other working capital effects were principally a decrease in other current liabilities, partly offset by decreases in inventory and other current assets. bp actively manages its working capital balances to optimize and reduce volatility in cash flow. 
Operating cash flow for the year ended 31 
December 2022 was $40.9 billion, $17.3 billion higher than 2021. Compared with 2021, operating cash flows in 2022 reflected higher profits from operations partly offset by working capital movements and higher tax payments.
Movements in working capital adversely 
impacted cash flow in 2022 by $6.3 billion, including an adverse impact from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill of $1.3 billion. Other working capital effects were principally an increase in other current assets and inventory offset by an increase in other current liabilities. 
Net cash used in investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended 31 December 2023 increased by $1.2 billion compared with 2022.The increase mainly reflected an increase in expenditure on fixed assets and lower divestment proceeds, partly offset by a decrease in acquisitions, as the prior year included $3.0 billion for the acquisition of Archaea Energy.
Total capital expenditure for 2023 was 
$16.3 billion (2022 $16.3 billion), of which organic capital expenditure
 was $15.0 billion 
(2022 $12.5 billion). Inorganic capital expenditure includes $1.1 billion, net of adjustments, in respect of the TravelCenters of America acquisition. Sources of funding are fungible, but the majority of the group’s funding requirements for new investment comes from cash generated by existing operations. For 2024-25 bp expects capital expenditure of around $16 billion per annum, in line with our medium-term target of $14-18 billion. 
Total divestment and other proceeds for 2023 
amounted to $1.8 billion, including $0.5 billion relating to the sale of the upstream business in Algeria and $0.3 billion relating to the disposal of bp’s interest in the bp-Husky Toledo refinery. Other proceeds for 2023 consist of $0.5 billion of proceeds from the sale of a 49% interest in a controlled affiliate holding certain midstream assets onshore US.
Total divestment and other proceeds for 2022 
amounted to $3.1 billion, including $0.7 billion relating to the formation of Azule Energy and $0.3 billion relating to the disposal of bp's interest in the Sunrise oil sands project in Canada. Other proceeds for 2022 consist of $0.6 billion of proceeds from the disposal of a loan note related to the Alaska divestment. The cash was received in the fourth quarter 2021, reported as a financing cash flow and was not included in other proceeds at the time due to potential recourse from the counterparty. As at 31 December 2023, $17.8 billion of proceeds were received against our target of $25 billion of divestment and other proceeds between the second half of 2020 and 2025. bp continues to expect divestment and other proceeds of $2-3 billion in 2024.
Net cash provided by (used in) 
financing  ac
tivities
Net cash used in financing activities for the year 
ended 31 December 2023 was $13.4 billion, compared with $28.0 billion in 2022. Compared with 2022, financing cash flows in 2023 primarily reflected higher proceeds from, and lower repayments of, long-term debt as a result of activity to manage the group’s debt portfolio.
In 2023, 1,263 million of ordinary shares (2022 
1,900 million) were repurchased for cancellation for a total cost of $7.9 billion (2022 $10.0 billion), including transaction costs of $43 million (2022 $54 million).
Total dividends paid to shareholders in 2023 
were 27.760 cents per share, 4.83 cents higher than 2022. This amounted to total dividends paid to shareholders of $4.8 billion in 2023 (2022 $4.4 billion). The board decided not to offer a scrip dividend alternative in respect of
 
the 2023 and 2022 dividends.
Debt
Finance debt at the end of 2023 increased by $5.0 billion from the end of 2022 primarily reflecting net long-term debt issuances. The finance debt ratio at the end of 2023 increased to 37.8% from 36.1% at the end of 2022. 
Net debt at the end of 2023 decreased by $0.5 
billion from the 2022 year-end position. Gearing at the end of 2023 decreased to 19.7% from 20.5% at the end of 2022. The decrease in net debt and gearing primarily reflected cash flows generated from operating activities during the year. Net debt and gearing are non-IFRS measures. See Financial statements – Notes 26 and 27 for further information on finance debt and net debt.
For information on financing the group’s 
activities see Financial statements – Note 29 and Liquidity and capital resources on page
 
340.Cash flow and debt information
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Cash flow
Operating cash flow 32,039 40,932 23,612
Net cash used in investing activities (14,872) (13,713) (5,694)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (13,359) (28,021) (18,079)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33,030 29,195 30,681
Capital expenditurea (16,253) (16,330) (12,848)
Divestment and other proceedsb1,843 3,123 7,632
Debt
Finance debt 51,954 46,944 61,176
Net debt 20,912 21,422 30,613
Net debt including leases 31,902 29,990 39,411
Finance debt ratio  (%) 37.8% 36.1% 40.3%
Gearing  (%) 19.7% 20.5% 25.3%
Gearing including leases  (%) 27.2% 26.5% 30.4%
a A n analysis of capital expenditure by segment and region is provided on page 336.
b
 D
ivestment proceeds are disposal proceeds as per the group cash flow statement. See below for more information on divestment 
and other proceeds.

38
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Group performance continued
Total hydrocarbon proved reserves at 
31 December 2023, on an oil equivalent basis, including equity-accounted entities, decreased by 6% compared with 31 December 2022 ( 8% 
decrease for subsidiaries and 4%  increase for 
equity-accounted entities). Natural gas decreased by 5% ( 7% decrease for subsidiaries 
and 6% increase for equity-accounted entities). 
There was a net increase from acquisitions and 
disposals of 31mmboe within our US and North Africa subsidiaries. Total hydrocarbon production for the group was 5.1% lower compared with 2022. The decrease comprised a 1.6% decrease (5.2% decrease for liquids and 1.3% increase for gas) for subsidiaries and a 21.3% decrease (16.0% decrease for liquids and 35.9% decrease for gas) for equity-accounted entities. The production decrease in the equity-accounted entities is due to absence of bp share of production from Rosneft.
Excluding the impact of Rosneft, total 
hydrocarbon production for the group was 2.6% higher compared with 2022. The increase comprised a 1.6% decrease (5.2% decrease for liquids and 1.3% increase for gas) for subsidiaries and a 36.1% increase (51.8% increase for liquids and 1.0% decrease for gas) for equity-accounted entities.Group reserves and productiona
2023 2022 2021
Estimated net proved reserves  ( net of royalties)
Liquids (mmb) 3,747 3,997 10,124
Natural gas (bcf) 17,471 18,481 39,615
Total hydrocarbonsb (mmboe) 6,759 7,183 16,954
Of which :
Equity-accounted entitiesb1,437 1,381 10,065
Production (net of royalties)
Liquids (mb/d) 1,115 1,214 1,951
Natural gas (mmcf/d) 6,944 7,101 7,915
Total hydrocarbonsc (mboe/d) 2,313 2,438 3,316
Of which :
Subsidiaries 1,967 2,000 1,994
Equity-accounted entitiesc345 439 1,322
a B ecause of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
b
 2
021 includes bp’s share of Rosneft and Russia joint ventures. See Supplementary information on oil and natural gas on page 247 
for further information. See page 347 for more information on bp’s oil and gas reserves including the impact of events occurring after the end of the reporting period.
c
 2
022 and 2021 include bp’s share of Rosneft and Russia joint ventures (2022 193mboe/d). See Oil and gas disclosures for the 
group on page 348 for further information.

39
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Gas & low carbon energy
Gas & low carbon energy segment comprises our gas & low carbon businesses. Our gas business 
includes regionsa with upstream activities that predominantly produce natural gas, integrated gas and 
power, and gas trading. Our low carbon business includes solar, offshore and onshore wind, hydrogen and CCS, and power trading. Power trading and marketing includes trading of both renewable and non-renewable power.
Financial results
Sales and other operating revenues for 2023 are 
lower than 2022 due to lower realizations and lower volumes (including the impact of the disposal of our Algeria business) partially offset by higher gas marketing and trading revenues. 
RC profit before interest and tax for 2023 was 
$14,080 million compared with $14,696 million for 2022.
Items which bp has classified as adjusting for 
2023 had a net favourable impact of $5,358 million including favourable fair value accounting effects (FVAEs)
 of $8,859 million, 
relative to management’s view of performance, partially offset by net impairment charges. See
 
Financial statements – Notes 4 and 16 for 
further information on net impairment charges.
After adjusting RC profit for the net impact of 
items which bp has classified as adjusting, underlying RC profit before interest and tax for
 
2023 was $8,722 million, compared with 
$16,063 million for 2022. The decrease reflects lower realizations, and a higher depreciation, depletion and amortization charge.
Items which bp has classified as adjusting for 
2022 had a net adverse impact of $1,367 million including adverse FVAEs of $1,811 million, relative to management’s view of performance, partially offset by a net impairment reversal.
See Financial statements – Note 5 for further 
information on segmental analysis.
Operational update
Reported production for 2023 was 929mboe/d, 2.9% lower than the same period in 2022. Underlying production
 for the full year was 
2.3% lower, mainly due to base decline, partly offset by major projects
 delivery.
Renewables pipeline  at the end of the year 
was 58.3GW (bp net). In 2023 the pipeline grew by 21.1GW , including bp being awarded the 
rights to develop two North Sea offshore wind projects in Germany (4GW), increases to Lightsource bp's pipeline (5.3GW), and an increase in dedicated hydrogen renewables (12.4GW).In renewables by the end of 2023 we had brought 6.2GW (bp net) developed renewables to FID
. 
Strategic progress
Gas
In Indonesia, we announced that the first cargo 
of liquefied natural gas (LNG) produced by the new third liquefaction train at the Tangguh LNG facility, in Papua Barat, Indonesia, was safely loaded and sailed in October. The start-up of Tangguh Train 3 has added 3.8 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of gross LNG production capacity to the existing facility, bringing total plant capacity to 11.4mtpa gross. 
In Australia, we purchased Shell’s 27% interest 
in the offshore Browse project. 
In India, the KGD6-MJ project offshore started 
at the end of June. Along with the two other KG D6 developments production is expected to account for around one third of India’s current domestic gas production and meet approximately 15% of India’s gas demand.Financial and operating performance
$ million
2023 2022b2021b
Sales and other operating revenuesc50,297 56,255 30,840
Profit before interest and tax 14,081 14,688 2,166
Inventory holding (gains) losses (1) 8 (33)
RC profit before interest and tax 14,080 14,696 2,133
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting itemsd(5,358) 1,367 5,395
Underlying RC profit before interest and tax 8,722 16,063 7,528
Taxation on an underlying RC basis (2,730) (4,367) (1,677)
Underlying RC profit before interest 5,992 11,696 5,851
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,680 5,008 4,464
Exploration write-offs 362 2 43
Adjusted EBITDAe14,764 21,073 12,035
Capital expenditure
Gas 3,025 3,227 3,180
Low carbon energy 1,256 1,024 1,561
4,281 4,251 4,741
a T he AGT and Middle East regions have been further subdivided by asset to allow reporting in either gas & low carbon or oil 
production & operations as appropriate.
b
 2
022 and 2021 include bp Bunge Bioenergia. From the first quarter of 2023, bp Bunge Bioenergia is reported within customers 
& products.
c
 I
ncludes sales to other segments.
d
 S
ee page 338 for information on the cumulative impact of FVAEs.
e
 A r
econciliation to RC profit before interest and tax is provided on page 384.

40
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Gas & low carbon energy continued
In Trinidad, we restructured the ownership and 
commercial framework of Atlantic LNG joint venture with its partners Shell and the National Gas Company of Trinidad & Tobago. The restructuring helps provide the certainty required for sanctioning the next wave of upstream gas projects and secures the long-term LNG equity offtake for shareholders, including bp. In addition, we and our partner Shell, were awarded three deepwater exploration blocks off Trinidad’s east coast. 
In Senegal, we have exited the Cayar Offshore 
Profond production sharing contract and transferred operatorship of Yakaar-Teranga gas resource to Kosmos Energy.
In March 2023 we confirmed that, together with 
ADNOC, we made a non-binding offer to take NewMed Energy private through an acquisition of the free float and a partial acquisition of Delek’s stake, which would result in bp and ADNOC holding 50% of NewMed Energy. 
On 14 February 2024 bp announced the 
formation of a new joint venture in Egypt (bp 51%, ADNOC 49%) under which, subject to regulatory approvals, bp will contribute its interests in three non-operated development concessions as well as exploration agreements in Egypt, and ADNOC will make a proportionate cash contribution.
LNG portfolio
• I n July bp and OMV announced the signing 
of a long-term agreement to supply up to 1mtpa of LNG for 10 years from 2026. This builds on bp in May agreeing 2bcm per year of regasification capacity for 20 years at the Gate terminal in Rotterdam.
•
 I
n September we announced our third 
long-term LNG offtake contract from Woodfibre’s British Columbia LNG facility with firm offtake totalling 1.95mtpa and any additional production on a flexible offtake basis.
•
 I
n November we signed a nine-year sales and 
purchase agreement (SPA) with state-owned Oman LNG to buy one million metric tonnes per annum of LNG starting 2026.
See Oil and gas disclosures for the group on page 342  for more information on oil and gas 
operations in the regions.Low carbon energy  
Hydrogen and carbon capture 
and 
storage 
In hydrogen and carbon capture and storage 
(CCS), we progressed an additional 1.1mtpa net to bp of hydrogen opportunities for a total of 2.9mtpa to project pipeline (concept development stage).
Our progress in hydrogen is focused on growing 
scale in key regionally integrated markets, such as Europe and the US, using our refineries as demand anchors. As hydrogen markets develop, we aim to create a portfolio of globally advantaged supply hubs.
•
 I
n February 2023 we launched plans for a 
low carbon green hydrogen  cluster called 
HyVal, at our Castellón refinery in the 
Valencia region of Spain.
•
 I
n the UK, in March 2023 we announced that 
two bp-led lower carbon projects, Net Zero Teesside Power and H2Teesside, part of the East Coast Cluster, were selected to proceed to negotiations for government support.
•
 I
n April we signed an agreement with 
Harbour Energy to take 40% stake in the Viking CCS project in the North Sea. 
•
 I
n October in the US, the Midwest Alliance for 
Clean Hydrogen (MachH2), of which we are a member, was selected by the US Department of Energy’s Office of Clean Energy. 
•
 D
emonstrations to develop a Regional Clean 
Hydrogen Hub. Under the proposals, it would include blue hydrogen
 production near our 
Whiting refinery.
Renewables and power
Offshore wind 
In offshore wind, in 2023 we continued to build 
our position with access to the German and Korean markets in addition to the UK and US. These positions in offshore wind will enable us to leverage integration opportunities with green hydrogen, EV mobility and power trading as we build the business.
•
 I
n Scotland, we announced a successful 
bid in the Innovation and Targeted Oil 
and
 
Gas (INTOG) Scottish offshore wind 
leasing round, bp’s first step in floating offshore wind. •
 I
n Korea, we announced the formation of a 
joint venture with Deep Wind Offshore to develop offshore wind opportunities in South Korea, which includes four projects across the Korean peninsula with a potential generating capacity of up to 6GW. 
•
 I
n July we were awarded the rights to 
develop two North Sea offshore wind projects in Germany. The sites are located 130km and 150km offshore, in water depths of about 40m, and have a total potential generating capacity of 4GW, raising our global offshore wind pipeline to 9.3GW. 
•
 I
n January 2024, we signed an agreement 
with Equinor under which we will restructure our US offshore wind project investments. Subject to approvals, we will be able to assume full ownership of the Beacon projects, and Equinor will assume full ownership of the Empire projects. bp plans to independently pursue future US offshore wind opportunities.
Onshore renewables
In solar, we announced we have agreed to acquire the remaining 50.03% of Lightsource bp
 
(LSbp). LSbp is one of the world’s leading 
developers and operators of utility-scale solar and battery storage assets, with 1,200 employees  
in 19 countries. LSbp has a hopper of 39GW of renewables pipeline and an additional 25GW of
 
early stage opportunities. The transaction 
is
 
expected to close in the second half of 2024, 
subject to regulatory approvals.
In support of hydrogen projects, the onshore 
renewables pipeline has increased by 12.4GW.
Power trading 
In January 2024 we announced we have agreed to acquire GETEC ENERGIE GmbH, a leading independent supplier of energy to commercial and industrial customers in Germany, subject to regulatory approvals.

41
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Estimated net proved reserves and productiona (net of royalties)
2023 2022 2021
Estimated net proved reserves (net of royalties)
Crude oilb (mmb) 128 151 228
Natural gas liquids (mmb) 1 9 32
Total liquidsc129 160 260
Natural gasc (bcf) 8,635 9,708 11,882
Total hydrocarbonsc (mmboe) 1,618 1,834 2,309
Of which equity-accounted entitiesd:
Liquids (mmb) — — —
Natural gas (bcf) — — —
Total hydrocarbons (mmboe) — — —
Production  (net of royalties)
Crude oilb (mb/d) 92 103 97
Natural gas liquids (mb/d) 13 15 16
Total liquids (mb/d) 105 118 113
Natural gas (mmcf/d) 4,778 4,866 4,632
Total hydrocarbons (mboe/d) 929 957 912
Of which equity-accounted entitiese:
Liquids (mb/d) 2 2 3
Natural gas (mmcf/d) — — —
Total hydrocarbons (mboe/d) 2 2 3
Average realizationsf
Liquids ($/bbl) 77.03 89.86 63.60
Natural gas ($/mcf) 6.13 8.91 5.11
Total hydrocarbons ($/boe) 40.21 56.34 33.75
a B ecause of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
b
 I
ncludes condensate and bitumen.
c
 I
ncludes 2.2 million barrels of total liquids (3 million barrels at 31 December 2022 and 10 million barrels at 31 December 2021) 
and 430 billion cubic feet of natural gas (547 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2022 and 690 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2021) in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC. 
d
 b
p’s share of reserves of equity-accounted entities in the gas & low carbon energy segment. 
e
 b
p’s share of production of equity-accounted entities in the gas & low carbon energy segment.
f
 R
ealizations are based on sales by consolidated subsidiaries only – this excludes equity-accounted entities.
Renewables
2023 2022 2021
Renewables  (bp net, GW)
Installed renewables capacity 2.7 2.2 1.9
Developed renewables to FID 6.2 5.8 4.4
Renewables pipeline 58.3 37.2 23.1
of which by geographical area:
Renewables pipeline – Americas 18.8 17.0 16.2
Renewables pipeline – Asia Pacific 21.3 11.8 1.4
Renewables pipeline – Europe 14.6 8.3 5.3
Renewables pipeline – Other 3.5 0.1 0.2
of which by technology:
Renewables pipeline – offshore wind 9.3 5.2 3.7
Renewables pipeline – onshore wind 12.7 6.3 —
Renewables pipeline – solar 36.3 25.7 19.4
Total developed renewables to FID and renewables pipeline 64.5 43.0 27.5
 

42
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Oil production & operations
Oil production & operations segment comprises regionsa with upstream activities that predominantly 
produce crude oil, including bpx energy.
Financial results
Sales and other operating revenues for 2023 
were lower than 2022 mainly due to lower realizations.
RC profit before interest and tax for 2023 was 
$11,191 million compared with $19,721 million for 2022.
Adjusting items for 2023 had a net adverse 
impact of $1,590 million mainly relating to net impairment charges. See Financial statement – Note 4 for further information on net impairment charges.
After adjusting RC profit for the net adverse 
impact of adjusting items, underlying RC profit before interest and tax for 2023 was $12,781 million, compared with $20,224 million for 2022. The lower profit reflects lower realizations, and the impact of portfolio changes, partly offset by higher volumes.
Adjusting items for 2022 had a net adverse 
impact of $503 million principally relating to impairments as a result of expected portfolio changes, partially offset by ga ins on disposals, 
mainly arising from the contribution of our Angolan business to Azule Energy.
See Financial statements – Note 5 for further 
information on segmental analysis. Operational update
Reported production for 2023 was 1,383mboe/d, 6.7% higher than the same period of 2022. Underlying production
 for the year 
was 6.3% higher compared with the same period of 2022 reflecting bpx energy performance and major projects
 and 
base performance.
Strategic progress
• S tart-up of our fifth platform in the Gulf of 
Mexico, the Mad Dog Phase 2 Argos platform was announced (bp 60.5%, operator), with a gross production capacity of up to 140,000 barrels of oil per day.
•
 W
e successfully started production from the 
Seagull oil and gas field and spudded the first of two wells for the Murlach oil and gas field in the UK North Sea.
•
 W
e sanctioned the Argos Southwest 
Expansion project to tie back into the  Argos facility.
•
 B
ingo, the second central processing facility 
of bpx energy in the Permian Basin was successfully brought online.
•
 P
artners approved the expansion of the 
Shell-operated Great White development in the Gulf of Mexico through a phased three-well campaign (bp 33.33%).•
 T
he Azeri Central East (ACE) platform 
topsides unit was installed in the field and the first pre-drill well was spudded. This is the seventh and most automated platform installed in the giant Azeri Chirag Gunashli (ACG) field with approximately 100,000 barrels a day installed capacity.
•
 T
he contract was executed for the 
Bumerangue block (bp 100%), in the Santos Basin, in Brazil.
• We successfully bid on the Tupinambá block, 
an area of 3,056km2 located in the Santos 
Pre-Salt Basin, in Brazil (bp 100%).
•
 A
zule Energy signed a production sharing 
agreement for Block 31/21, which is a significant stride towards advancing exploration in the Lower Congo Basin.
•
 A
zule Energy progressed four new 
exploration agreements in blocks adjacent to existing operations (46, 47, 14/23 and 18/15).
See Oil and gas disclosures for the group on page 342  for more information on oil and gas 
operations in the regions.Financial and operating performance
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Sales and other operating revenuesb24,904 33,193 24,519
Profit before interest and tax 11,191 19,714 10,509
Inventory holding (gains) losses — 7 (8)
RC profit before interest and tax 11,191 19,721 10,501
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items 1,590 503 (209)
Underlying RC profit before interest and tax 12,781 20,224 10,292
Taxation on an underlying RC basis (5,998) (9,143) (4,123)
Underlying RC profit before interest 6,783 11,081 6,169
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,692 5,564 6,528
Exploration write-offs 384 383 125
Adjusted EBITDAc18,857 26,171 16,945
Capital expenditure 6,278 5,278 4,838
a T he AGT and Middle East regions have been further subdivided by asset to allow reporting in either gas & low carbon or oil 
production & operations as appropriate.
b
 I
ncludes sales to other segments.
c
 A r
econciliation to RC profit before interest and tax is provided on page 384.

43
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Estimated net proved reserves and productiona (net of royalties)
2023 2022 2021
Estimated net proved reserves (net of royalties)
Crude oilb (mmb) 3,193 3,380 3,872
Natural gas liquids (mmb) 426 457 361
Total liquids 3,618 3,836 4,234
Natural gas (bcf) 8,836 8,774 11,499
Total hydrocarbons  (mmboe) 5,142 5,349 6,216
Of which equity-accounted entitiesc:
Liquids (mmb) 1,001 968 795
Natural gas (bcf) 2,527 2,394 4,880
Total hydrocarbons (mmboe) 1,437 1,381 1,637
Production  (net of royalties)
Crude oilb (mb/d) 910 866 898
Natural gas liquids (mb/d) 100 86 81
Total liquids (mb/d) 1,010 952 978
Natural gas (mmcf/d) 2,165 1,998 1,903
Total hydrocarbons (mboe/d) 1,383 1,297 1,307
Of which equity-accounted entitiesd:
Liquids (mb/d) 269 176 140
Natural gas (mmcf/d) 432 436 468
Total hydrocarbons (mboe/d) 343 251 221
Average realizationse
Liquids ($/bbl) 72.09 89.62 62.57
Natural gas ($/mcf) 4.17 10.46 5.49
Total hydrocarbons ($/boe) 58.34 82.23 55.65
a B ecause of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
b
 I
ncludes condensate and bitumen.
c
 b
p’s share of reserves of equity-accounted entities in the oil production & operations segment, which includes bp’s share of 
reserves of Russia joint ventures in 2021. During 2023 gas operations in Angola, Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico and Norway were conducted through equity-accounted entities. 
d
 b
p’s share of production of equity-accounted entities in the oil production & operations segment. 2022 and 2021 include bp’s 
share of production of Russia joint ventures.
e
 R
ealizations are based on sales by consolidated subsidiaries only – this excludes equity-accounted entities.

44
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Customers & products
Customers & products segment comprises our customer-focused businesses, which include 
convenience and retail fuels, EV charging, as well as Castrol , aviation and B2B and midstream.  
It also includes our products businesses, refining & oil trading, as well as our bioenergy businesses.
Financial results
Sales and other operating revenues in 2023 
were lower than in 2022, mainly due to lower product and crude prices.
RC profit before interest and tax for 2023 was 
$4,230 million, compared with $8,869 million for 2022.
Items which bp has classified as adjusting for 
2023 had a net adverse impact of $2,183 million (including adverse fair value accounting effects of $86 million – relative to management’s view of performance), of which $1,614 million related to impairments of assets, which included an impairment of the Gelsenkirchen refinery. See
 
Financial statement – Note 4 for further 
information on impairments.After adjusting RC profit for the net adverse impact of items, which bp classified as adjusting, underlying RC profit before interest and tax was $6,413 million, compared with $10,789 million for 2022. The lower result primarily reflects the impact of lower refining margins and a lower oil trading performance.
Items which bp has classified as adjusting for 
2022 had a net adverse impact of $1,920 million (including favourable fair value accounting effects of $309 million – relative to management’s view of performance), of which $1,874 million related to impairment of assets, which included an impairment of the Gelsenkirchen refinery.Customers – the convenience and mobility result, excluding Castrol,  for 2023 was lower 
than 2022. The benefits of a strong convenience performance and higher volumes, were more than offset by higher costs, including increased expenditure in our transition growth
 engines, 
inflationary impacts and increased depreciation.
Castrol  result for 2023 was higher than 2022, 
with higher margins partly offset by higher 
costs and adverse foreign exchange impacts.
Products – the result for 2023 was significantly 
lower than 2022. In refining, the result was primarily impacted by significantly lower industry refining margins, higher turnaround activity, albeit with a lower margin impact, partly offset by a lower level of unplanned maintenance activity. The contribution from oil trading was also significantly lower, as the first half of 2022 benefited from an exceptionally strong oil trading performance.  
Operational update 
bp-operated refining availability  for the full 
year was 96.1%, higher compared with 94.5% in 2022, due to a lower level of unplanned maintenance activity.
Strategic progress
Convenience & retail fuels
In support of our convenience transition growth 
engine delivery, in May 2023, we completed our purchase of TravelCenters of America. It is one of the biggest networks of roadside travel centres in the US, adding a network of around 290 sites to our retail network, strategically located on major highways across the US. To support growing demand for lower carbon mobility solutions, over time we plan to expand and develop new offers, such as electric vehicle (EV) charging, biofuels, renewable natural gas 
and hydrogen. 
Excluding TravelCenters of America, 
convenience performance was strong, with 9%
ab 
convenience gross margin  growth in 2023, 
compared to 2022 at constant foreign exchange. Strategic convenience sites
 grew 
to 2,850, an increase of more than 450 sites compared to 2022. In addition:
•
 I
n March 2023 we signed a new agreement 
with Rontec, one of the UK’s largest roadside 
retail networks, to supply around two billion litres of fuel over the next five years to more than 60 of Rontec’s sites. Financial and operating performance
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Sales and other operating revenuesa160,215 188,623 130,095
Profit before interest and tax 2,993 10,235 5,563
Inventory holding (gains) losses 1,237 (1,366) (3,355)
Replacement cost (RC) profit before interest and tax 4,230 8,869 2,208
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting itemsb2,183 1,920 1,044
Underlying RC profit before interest and tax 6,413 10,789 3,252
Of which :
customers – convenience & mobility 2,644 2,966 3,052
Castrol – included in customers 730 700 1,037
products – refining & trading 3,769 7,823 200
Taxation on an underlying RC basis (1,454) (2,308) (1,210)
Underlying RC profit before interest 4,959 8,481 2,042
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 3,548 2,870 3,000
Of which :
customers – convenience & mobility 1,736 1,286 1,306
Castrol – included in customers 167 153 150
products – refining & trading 1,812 1,584 1,694
Adjusted EBITDAc9,961 13,659 6,252
Of which :
customers – convenience & mobility 4,380 4,252 4,358
Castrol – included in customers 897 853 1,187
products – refining & trading 5,581 9,407 1,894
Capital expenditure 5,253 6,252 2,872
Of which :
customers – convenience & mobility 3,135 1,779 1,564
Castrol – included in customers 262 235 173
products – refining & trading 2,118 4,473 1,308
a I ncludes sales to other segments.
b
 S
ee page 338 for information on the cumulative impact of FVAEs.
c
 A r
econciliation to RC profit before interest and tax by business is provided on page 351.

45
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373• I n July bp and Lekkerland extended their 
successful partnership to deliver REWE To Go 
stores at Aral  retail sites until 2028. This is 
our largest European convenience supply agreement and brings together Germany's largest forecourt brand with one of the country's leading convenience specialists in support of our convenience growth engine delivery.
•
 I
n August we signed an agreement with 
Auchan to extend its successful strategic convenience partnership in Poland, with plans to add more than 100 EasyAuchan stores to its retail network by the end of 2025.
•
 I
n September 2023, we strengthened our 
BPme Rewards loyalty scheme with the launch of loyalty pricing, giving customers exclusive discounts on retail store products at around 300 bp-owned retail sites across the UK.
•
 I
n November we entered into an agreement 
to sell the Türkiye ground fuels business to Petrol Ofisi. This includes the group's interest in three joint venture terminals in Türkiye. Completion of the sale is subject to regulatory approvals.
EV charging
EV charging continues to show strong momentum. EV charge points
 installed and 
energy sold in the year grew by around 35% and 150% respectively, compared to 2022, with charge points now over 29,000. On 1 December bp and Iberdrola formed a joint venture to accelerate EV charging infrastructure roll-out in Spain and Portugal, with plans to invest up to €1 billion and install 5,000 fast
 EV charge 
points by 2025 and around 11,700 by 2030. In addition:
•
 I
n March 2023 bp pulse  announced a new 
global mobility agreement with Uber, which 
will see the companies work together to help accelerate Uber’s commitment to become a global zero-tailpipe emissions mobility platform by 2040.
•
 I
n August we announced we had approved 
$500 million of investment in the US to begin building our EV network over the next two to
 
three years. As part of this investment, in 
October 2023, we announced we had entered into an agreement with Tesla for the future purchase of $100 million of ultra-fast
 
chargers.
•
 I
n September bp pulse , The EV Network and 
NEC Group, launched the UK’s largest public EV charging hub at the NEC campus in Birmingham, UK. The new Gigahub at the NEC has capacity to charge up to 180 EVs simultaneously.
•
 I
n January 2024 we continued to invest in 
fast-growing southern districts in China, and acquired 3,000 charge points through the bp Xiajou joint venture.Castrol
Castrol continued to grow its independent branded workshops, adding around 4,500 workshops in 2023, compared to 2022, with workshops now over 34,000 in total. Castrol  also 
strengthened its market leading position in advanced EV-fluids, as now three out of four of the world’s major vehicle manufacturers use Castrol ON products as part of their factory fill
c. 
In addition: 
•
 I
n June Castrol  signed a strategic co-
operation protocol with Yiwu TNFia, one of 
the largest automobile service chains in East China, positioning Castrol  to expand its share 
of products in Yiwu TNFia’s large and growing network of auto workshops.
Castrol  continued to invest in its technology 
centres in 2023:
•
 I
n May Castrol  opened its new EV lab at 
Castrol  China Technology Centre in Shanghai, 
to focus on developing and testing EV fluids. 
The expansion supports bp’s strategy to drive lower-carbon mobility in China and to help customers achieve their sustainability goals.
•
 I
n September Castrol  opened the Castrol  
Americas Technology Center, in Wayne, New
 
Jersey. This is a 12,000 square foot, 
state-of-the-art laboratory to develop and test fluids for EVs, engine and driveline oils and industrial lubricants.
Bioenergy
In October bp’s Archaea Energy announced the official start-up of its original Archaea Modular Design (AMD) renewable natural gas plant in Medora, Indiana, located next to a landfill site owned by Rumpke Waste and Recycling. 
•
 I
n December bp’s Archaea Energy 
announced it had brought two more 
renewable natural gas plants online, the Monty plant in Kentucky and the Red Top plant in California.In addition:
•
 I
n February 2023 bp and BHP, one of 
the
 
world’s largest iron ore producers, 
announced a partnership to trial the use of 
blended diesel with hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO) to assist BHP to reduce carbon emissions from its iron ore operations in Western Australia.
•
 I
n March 2023 Air bp announced the first 
sale of International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) EU sustainable aviation fuel produced at bp’s Castellón refinery in Spain, to the LATAM Group, one
 
of Latin America’s largest airlines.
•
 I
n April our Rotterdam refinery in the 
Netherlands, became the first bp refinery to co-process Nuseed Carinta Oil as part of our partnership with Nuseed. Nuseed Carinata Oil is a sustainable low carbon biofuel feedstock which we plan to use in our refineries, as well as onward marketing.
•
 I
n November Air bp collaborated with Virgin 
Atlantic, Rolls Royce, Boeing, and others, to fuel the first 100% sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) transatlantic flight by a commercial airline. The SAF was a blend derived from inputs supplied by Air bp and Virent. Together, this enabled up to 70% lifecycle carbon emission savings compared to the conventional jet fuel it replaced.
Refining
We continue to high grade our portfolio:
•
 O
n 28 February 2023 bp completed the sale 
of its 50% interest in the bp-Husky Toledo 
refinery in Ohio, US, to Cenovus Energy, its partner in the facility.
•
 I
n May our Cherry Point refinery in the US 
successfully commissioned the hydrocracker improvement project and cooling water infrastructure project. The new vacuum tower and cooling water tower are now online and are expected to improve availability, reduce maintenance costs and CO
2 emissions.
a N earest equivalent IFRS measure to 
change in convenience gross margin : 
Change in replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the customers & products segment is -52% for 2023 compared with 2022. 
b A t constant foreign exchange – values are at end 2023 
foreign exchange rates, excluding TravelCenters of America 
and adjusted for other portfolio changes.
c
 B
ased on GlobalData report for 2023 for top 20 selling global 
OEMs (total new vehicle sales).

46
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Other businesses & corporate
Other businesses & corporate comprises innovation & engineering, bp ventures, launchpad, regions, 
corporates & solutions, our corporate activities & functions and any residual costs of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. From the first quarter 2022 the results of Rosneft, previously reported as a separate segment, are also included in other businesses & corporate. For more information see Financial statements – Note 1 Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions – Investment in Rosneft.
Financial results
RC loss before interest and tax for 2023 was 
$903 million, compared with $26,737 million for 2022.
Adjusting items for 2023 had a net adverse 
impact of $37 million. Adjusting items include impacts of fair value accounting effects, which were a favourable impact of $630 million. Adjusting items also include impacts of environmental charges, which were an adverse impact of $604 million.
Adjusting items for 2022 had a net adverse 
impact of $25,566 million mainly relating to bp’s decision to exit its 19.75% shareholding in Rosneft and including adverse fair value accounting effects of $1,381 million. 
After adjusting RC profit for the adjusting items, 
underlying RC loss before interest and tax for 2023 was $866 million, compared with a loss of $1,171 million for 2022, reflecting increased interest income.Strategic progress
We continued to invest in a portfolio of technology businesses, which we see as having the potential for high growth and to benefit and extend our transition growth
 engines, through 
bp ventures. Strategically significant investments made through 2023 include:
•
 I
n April Magenta Mobility, one of India’s 
largest providers of electric mobility for 
last-mile delivery, the journey from hub to customer.
•
 I
n April Service4Charger, a Germany-based 
provider of intelligent, scalable e-mobility solutions and full-service implementation, including the planning, installation, operation and maintenance of charging infrastructure for electric vehicles (EVs).
•
 I
n June WasteFuel, a US biofuels company, 
which is planning to develop a global network of plants to convert municipal and agricultural waste into bio-methanol, a biofuel that could play a significant role in decarbonizing hard-to-abate sectors like shipping.•
 I
n July Electric Hydrogen, a US based 
developer of high-efficiency and lower cost electrolyzers with the aim of delivering its first 100MW product in 2024.
•
  I n August Dynamon, a UK-based software 
company, which provides advanced data analytics and simulation software tools that help transport and logistics companies adopt low carbon energy solutions such as EV charging infrastructure as they look to electrify their fleets.
•
 I
n August Advanced Ionics, a US-based 
company developing a new category of hydrogen electrolyzers, supporting the expansion of green hydrogen
 production.
In 2022 we took the decision to no longer seek new companies for bp's launchpad accelerator, with our focus now to scale and build businesses within our five transition growth engines – bioenergy, convenience, EV charging, renewables & power and hydrogen.Financial and operating performance
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Sales and other operating revenuesa2,657 2,299 1,724
Profit (loss) before interest and tax (903) (26,737) (89)
Inventory holding (gains) losses — — (259)
Replacement cost (RC) profit (loss) before interest and tax (903) (26,737) (348)
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting itemsb37 25,566 1,685
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest and tax (866) (1,171) 1,337
Taxation on an underlying RC basis 322 439 25
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest (544) (732) 1,362
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 1,008 876 813
Capital expenditure 441 549 397
a I ncludes sales to other segments.
b
 S
ee page 338 for information on the cumulative impact of FVAEs.

47
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Other businesses & corporate excluding Rosneft
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) before interest and tax (903) (2,704) (2,777)
Inventory holding (gains) losses — — —
Replacement cost (RC) profit (loss) before interest and tax (903) (2,704) (2,777)
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items 37 1,533 1,394
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest and tax (866) (1,171) (1,383)
Taxation on an underlying RC basis 322 439 294
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest (544) (732) (1,089)
Rosneft
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) before interest and tax — (24,033) 2,688
Inventory holding (gains) losses — — (259)
Replacement cost (RC) profit (loss) before interest and tax — (24,033) 2,429
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items — 24,033 291
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest and tax — — 2,720
Taxation on an underlying RC basis — — (269)
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest — — 2,451
2023 2022 2021
Estimated net proved reserves (net of royalties) (bp share)
Crude oila (mmb) — — 5,490
Natural gas liquids (mmb) — — 140
Total liquidsb— — 5,630
Natural gasc (bcf) — — 16,233
Total hydrocarbons  (mmboe) — — 8,429
Productiond (net of royalties)
Crude oila (mb/d) — 144 857
Natural gas liquids (mb/d) — — 3
Total liquids (mb/d) — 144 860
Natural gas (mmcf/d) — 238 1,380
Total hydrocarbons (mboe/d) — 185 1,098
a I ncludes condensate.
b
 I
ncludes 396mmb at 31 December 2021 for the 7.04% non-controlling interest in Rosneft-held assets in Russia including 
22 million barrels at 31 December 2021 held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft. 
c
 I
ncludes 1,656bcf at 31 December 2021 for the 10.01% non-controlling interest in Rosneft-held assets in Russia including 
621bcf at 31 December 2021 held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft.
d
 2
022 reflects bp's estimated share of Rosneft production for the period 1 January to 27 February only. The estimated share 
of production for that period has been averaged over the full year.

48
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Sustainability at bpSustainability
Our sustainability frame translates our purpose into action and underpins our strategy to become an 
integrated energy company. It focuses on three areas – getting to net zero, improving people’s lives and caring for our planet.
Reporting on sustainability
In this section, we cover selected 
sustainability issues along with information in the following areas:
•
 G
etting to net zero, see 
pages  
48-51
•
 I
mproving people’s lives, see 
page 53
•
 C
aring for our planet, see 
page  
54
•
 C
limate-related financial 
disclosures, see pages 55-68•  O ur approach – safety, ethics 
and compliance, our people, 
‘Who we are’ (our beliefs), see pages 69-72
We report on our progress embedding sustainability and delivering our frame in our latest sustainability report at  bp.com/sustainabilityGetting to net zero
Our ambition to be a net zero company by 2050 or sooner, and to help the world get to net zero, remains unchanged. 
We have worked to deliver our 10 
net zero aims since we launched them in 2020. We believe our ambition and aims, taken together, are consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement.By setting a path that enables us to make a positive contribution, working to build and participate in many of the new net zero value chains the world will need, our ambition and aims support the world’s progress towards the Paris Agreement. 
Read more on consistency with the Paris goals on page
 
14
Net zero performance
Progress against our five aims to help bp get to net zero in 2023.
Aim Measure/coverage2023 
performance2025 target 2030 aim2050, 
or sooner, aim
 1 Net zero operations Scope 1 and 2 41%a20%a50%aNet zero
 2 Net zero production Scope 3 13%a10-15%a20-30%aNet zero
 3 Net zero salesAverage lifecycle carbon 
intensity 3%b5%b15-20%bNet zero
 4 Reducing methane Methane intensity 0.05%c0.20%d50% reductiond
 5 More $ into transition Transition growth investment $3.8bn $6-8bn $7-9bn
1
Aim 1 is to be net zero across our entire 
operations on an absolute basis by 2050 or sooner.
We are targeting a 20% reduction in our aim 1 operational emissions by 2025 and aim for a 50% reduction by 2030 against our 2019 baseline of 54.5MtCO
2ee.
Our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions, covered by aim 1 were 32.1MtCO
2e – a decrease of 41% from our 2019 baseline of 54.5MtCO 2ef. 
The total decrease includes 17.9MtCO 2e 
attributable to divestments and 5.0MtCO 2e in 
sustainable emission reductions (SERs) . 
Scope 1 (direct) emissions, covered by aim 1, were 31.1MtCO
2e – an overall increase from 
30.4MtCO 2e in 2022. Of these Scope 1 
emissions, 30.2MtCO 2e were carbon dioxide 
and 1.0MtCO 2e methaneg. Overall emissions 
increased due to temporary operational changes, project start-ups and growth, which was partially offset by delivery of SERs and divestments.
a R eduction in absolute emissions against 2019 baseline.
b
 R
eduction in the average carbon intensity of sold energy products against the 2019 baseline. The percentage change is calculated from the source data instead of the rounded carbon 
intensity number.
c
 M
ethane intensity is calculated using our existing methodology and, while it reflects progress in reducing methane emissions, will not directly correlate with progress towards delivering  
the 2025 target under aim 4. 
d
  T
he 0.20% methane intensity target is based on our measurement approach. The 50% reduction we are aiming for is against a new baseline which we plan to set based on the new  
measurement approach. Methane intensity is currently calculated using our existing methodology. 
e
 C
hanged from 54.4MtCO 2e for consistency in rounding.
f
 S
cope 2 emissions on a market basis.
g
 D
ue to rounding some totals may not equal the sum of their component parts. This does not affect the underlying values.In 2023 our Scope 2f (indirect) emissions, 
covered by aim 1, decreased by 0.4MtCO 2e, to 
1.0MtCO 2e, compared with 2022. Lower carbon 
power agreements, including those at our 
Cherry Point and Whiting refineries, contributed to this decrease.
We report our Scope 1 and 2 emissions on an 
operational control and equity share basis in our
 
ESG datasheet. 
bp.com/ESGdata

49
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373h E xcluding bp’s share of production in Rosneft. On 27 February 2022, bp announced that it intends to exit its 19.75% shareholding in Rosneft Oil Company (Rosneft). bp ceased equity accounting for 
Rosneft from this date.
i
 S
ee the bp Basis of Reporting 2023 for more information on the list of energy products covered at bp.com/basisofreporting.
j
 T
he aggregate lifecycle emissions and energy values used in the calculation of the average carbon intensity of sold energy products are provided in our ESG datasheet at bp.com/ESGdata.
k
 P
reviously reported aim 3 figures for the period 2019-2022 have been restated to correct misstatements in sales data identified through business reviews and digital improvement projects.
l
 T
he percentage change is calculated from the source data instead of the rounded carbon intensity number.2
Aim 2 is to be net zero on an absolute basis 
across the carbon in our upstream  oil and 
gas production  by 2050 or sooner.
This is our Scope 3 aim and it is based on bp’s net share of production
h (around 361MtCO 2 in 
2019). It is associated with the CO 2 emissions 
from the assumed combustion of upstream production of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs).
We are targeting a 10-15% reduction by 2025 
and will aim for 20-30% by 2030 against our 2019 baseline, underpinned by our aim to reduce our oil and gas production from 2019 levels by around 25% by 2030.
The estimated Scope 3 emissions from the 
carbon in our upstream oil and gas production were 315MtCO
2 in 2023, a slight increase 
from 307MtCO 2 in 2022, mainly associated with 
an increase in underlying production  due to 
the ramp-up of major projects  and higher 
asset performance.
Since 2019 our estimated Scope 3 emissions 
covered by aim 2 have reduced by 13%, which is
 
around the mid-range of our 2025 target of 
a
 
10-15% reduction against our 2019 baseline. 
Our plans and forward path for emissions covered by aim 2 will take into account growth in underlying production due to major project start-ups out to 2025, deferred divestments and
 
growth in bpx energy production.
3
Aim 3 is to reduce to net zero the average carbon intensity of sold energy products
 
by 2050 or sooner.
This aim applies to the average carbon intensity of sold energy products. It is estimated on a lifecycle (full value chain) basis from the use, production, and distribution of sold energy products per unit of energy (MJ) delivered.
In 2023 the average carbon intensity of the 
energy products we sell was 77gCO
2e/MJ. This represents a 3%l decrease from our 2019 
baseline, driven by changes in the sold product mix, methodology updates and the impact of portfolio changes such as the full year accounting of sales by EDF Energy Services.
4
Aim 4 is to install methane measurement at all our existing major oil and gas processing sites by 2023, publish the data, and then drive a 50% reduction in methane intensity
 
of our operations.
We will work to influence our joint ventures  to 
set their own methane intensity targets of 0.2%.
We maintained our methane intensity at 0.05% 
in 2023c. Methane emissions from upstream 
operations, used to calculate our intensity, increased by around 10% from 28kt in 2022 to
 
31kt in 2023. This increase is primarily from 
changes in flaring in our Azerbaijan-Georgia- Türkiye region and Tangguh operations. It was offset by methane emissions reductions from delivery of SERs. Marketed gas volumes increased by 4% to 3,332bcf in 2023.
We intend to take stock of our targets under  
aim 4 based on what we learn from our ongoing methane measurement activities and to take account of the Oil & Gas Decarbonization Charter announced at COP28, which we signed in 2023. The Charter includes aims to achieve net zero operations by or before 2050, and zero routine flaring and near-zero methane emissions by 2030.5
Aim 5 is to increase the proportion of investment we make into our non-oil and gas businesses.
In 2023 transition growth investment
 was 
$3.8 billion. This compares to $0.6 billion in 2019 and $4.9 billion in 2022. It represents around 23% of total capital expenditure
 for the 
year, which compares to around 3% in 2019 and around 30% in 2022. The change from 2022 reflects lower inorganic investment in our transition growth
 engines, outweighing an 
increase in organic investment in them over 2023.
As we highlighted in our 2022 report, it is not 
always possible to predict the timing of our capital investments, which means the progress we make on aim 5 can be expected to fluctuate – as it did between 2021 and 2023.  Some of our capital investment goes into large transactions – for example, our acquisitions  of Archaea Energy and EDF Energy Services  in 2022 and TravelCenters of America in 2023. This is true both for the level of investment  and for the proportion of our overall investment going into our transition growth engines, or  into the low carbon activity
 subset.
Our disciplined approach to capital investment means that individual investments will be  made when we consider there to be a clear  and compelling business case, in line with  our balanced set of investment criteria, see
 
page  
30.
Aim 5 transition growth investment
(annual $ billion)
2023 2022 2021 2020
More $ into  
the transition 3.8 4.9 2.4 1.0Average carbon intensity of sold energy products (gCO 2e/MJ)ijk
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Average carbon intensity of sold  energy products 77 77 78 77 79
Refined energy products
92 92 92 92 95
Gas products 67 67 67 67 68
Bioproducts 40 43 43 44 47
Power products 50 52 56 58 56

50
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 20236 
Aim 6 is to more actively advocate for 
policies that support net zero, including carbon pricing.
Our advocacy focused on several themes during 2023, including stronger methane emissions standards, and the need for increased climate policy and regulation, as well as policy frameworks that support growth in low carbon hydrogen, renewables and power, bioenergy and
 
decarbonizing transportation.
We have improved the transparency of our advocacy for global climate policy by publishing our high-level climate policy positions and examples of our relevant activities. 
We publish examples of our activity in support 
of aim 6 online at bp.com/advocacyactivities .
7
Aim 7 is to incentivize our global workforce  
to deliver on our aims and mobilize them to become advocates for net zero.
This will include continuing to allocate a percentage of remuneration linked to emissions reductions for leadership and around 36,400
a 
employees. Our annual bonus for all eligible employees, including the bp leadership team, has been linked to a sustainability measure since 2019. 
The bonus scorecard against which our  
eligible employees are measured incentivizes them through three themes: safety and sustainability (30% of which sustainability makes up 15%); operational performance (20%); and financial performance (50%). For 2024 our sustainability measure
b is now linked to our 
operated carbon emissions, which will cover all increases and decreases in those emissions over the year. This measure covers the same Scope 1 and 2 emissions reported under aim 1 (net zero operations).
Our 2022-24 long-term incentive plan scorecard 
also links performance to progress on Scope 1 and 2 emissions in our aim 1 and, for group leaders
c, two social measures are included – on 
employee engagement, and on improved ethnic minority representation in our senior-level leader
d and above population. As with the bonus scorecard, for 2024-26  we have adopted an absolute percentage reduction in operational emissions against  our 2019 baseline as the basis for measuring our progress against aim 1 in our long-term scorecard. This means that collectively, 35%  of our long-term incentive plan for group leaders is linked to sustainability-related measures.
Directors’ remuneration report, page 105 
and Share ownership, page 71
8
Aim 8 is to set new expectations for our relationships with trade associations around the globe.
We will make the case for our views on climate change within the associations we belong to, and we will be transparent where we differ. And
 
where we can’t reach alignment, we are 
prepared to leave. 
We periodically assess the alignment of key 
associations with our position on climate. Our priority is to influence within trade associations, but we may publicly dissent or resign our membership if there is material misalignment on high-priority issues.
In 2023 we reviewed the progress of the 10 
associations which had been found to be ‘partially aligned’ in 2022 and we made a case for action in support of our position on climate.
bp.com/tradeassociations
9
Aim 9 is to be recognized as an industry leader for the transparency of our reporting.
On 12 February 2020 we declared our support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
Since 2021 we have reported in line with the 
FCA Listing Rule LR 9.8.6(8). It requires us to report on a ’comply or explain’ basis against the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures. We consider our 2023 climate-related financial disclosures to be consistent with all of the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures. For 2023 we also reported in line with the Companies (Strategic Report) Climate-related Financial Disclosure Regulations 2022 (The UK CFD Regulations).
We continued to take steps to promote 
stakeholders’ access to comparable and decision-useful climate-related disclosures.
We have participated in the development of 
carbon and net zero standards and benchmarks. Whether or not we agree with a particular methodology, we welcome the perspectives they can provide.
We support work to align global reporting 
standards and want to play our part in the development of high-quality, reliable, comparable standards that enable companies to prepare and disclose information that is material and decision-useful to stakeholders. In 2023 we continued sharing our views with standard setters and others who are working on the development of ESG reporting standards across different jurisdictions, including the US, Europe and UK. 
Climate-related TCFD disclosures, page 55
10
Aim 10  is to provide integrated clean energy 
and mobility solutions.
Our regions, corporates and solutions team  is working to help countries, cities and corporations around the world decarbonize. 
Our focus is on working with corporates in 
sectors that have significant emissions and  are not straightforward to decarbonize, such  as heavy industry and logistics. For example,  
in Teesside in the UK, remediation work on  the former Redcar steelworks has commenced, with plans to locate Net Zero Teesside Power there.
bp.com/rcsSustainability continued
a T his figure reflects the number of employees eligible for a cash bonus in 2023. The number of eligible employees in 2022 was 32,000.
b
 T
his measure was previously linked to SERs .
c G
roup leaders are our most senior leaders. Their roles include operational, functional and regional leadership.
d
 S
enior leaders are the leadership tier below group leaders. They typically manage larger teams or are recognized as technical or functional experts.

51
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Streamlined energy and carbon reporting (SECR) information
Further information on our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy consumption and energy efficiency is set out here and on the following page.  
It includes disclosures in respect of the SECR requirements. Further breakdown of our GHG and energy data is available in our ESG datasheet at bp.com/ESG
Operational controlabUnit 2023 2022 2021
Scope 1 (direct) emissions MtCO 2e 31.1 30.4 33.2
UK and offshore MtCO 2e 1.0 1.0 1.0
Global (excluding UK and offshore) MtCO 2e 30.1 29.4 32.1
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions – location-based MtCO 2e 2.0 2.1 2.4
UK and offshore MtCO 2e 0.02 0.02 0.03
Global (excluding UK and offshore) MtCO 2e 1.9 2.0c2.4d
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions – market-based MtCO 2e 1.0  1.4f2.4
UK and offshore MtCO 2e 0.0e0.0f0.0f
Global (excluding UK and offshore) MtCO 2e 1.0 1.4d2.4
Energy consumptiongGWh 124,770 121,697 128,805
UK and offshore GWh 4,688 4,376 4,386
Global (excluding UK and offshore) GWh 120,082 117,321 124,419
Ratio of Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions to gross productionhteCO 2e/te 0.16 0.15 0.17
UK and offshore teCO 2e/te 0.13 0.12 0.13
Global (excluding UK and offshore) teCO 2e/te 0.16 0.15 0.17
a O perational control data comprises 100% of emissions from activities operated by bp, going beyond the Ipieca guidelines by including emissions from certain other activities such as 
contracted drilling activities. Read more at bp.com/basisofreporting.
b
 D
ue to rounding some totals may not agree exactly to the sum of their component parts.
c
 R
estated due to IEA emission factor library update.
d
 R
estated due to consistency of rounding.
e
 2
023 reflects REGOs that had not been retired at the time of publication but are expected to be retired subject to business decisions at the end of the compliance period 31 July 2024.
f
 U
pdated to reflect use of renewable energy in UK and offshore in 2022 and 2021.
g
 E
nergy content of flared or vented gas is excluded from energy consumption reported as although it reflects loss of energy resources, it does not reflect energy use required for  
production or manufacturing of products.
h
 G
ross production comprises upstream production, refining throughput and petrochemicals produced.

52
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Streamlined energy and carbon reporting (SECR) information continued
Energy efficiency measures
Since 2016 we have delivered 8.9MtCO 2e of 
sustainable emissions reductions  (SERs) 
across our operated sites.
This is our key metric for tracking annual 
reductions in GHG emissions from energy efficiency savings and direct GHG emissions.
A total of 172 SERs projects in 2023 contributed 
to reductions of 0.9MtCO
2e. This is in addition to 
the 152 SER projects and associated reduction of 1.5MtCO
2e in 2022. Those included reduced fuel 
consumption in the North Sea, waste heat recovery in the Azerbaijan-Georgia-Türkiye (AGT) region and the automation of gas turbine generators, also known as power export optimization, in Oman. It also included projects across bpx energy sites in the US Permian Basin for example, electrification and removal of existing compressors to reduce fuel use.
Energy efficiency activities in 2023 included:•
 T
he implementation of bottom-up 
approaches to energy forecasting and 
management so our employees at sites better understand the energy balance of production assets. This has enabled them to avoid emissions by reducing the amount of additional equipment running for a given throughput of oil and gas.
•
 T
he creation of a global energy dashboard 
for
 
refining within bp Solutions to enable 
real-time performance management at sites. The tool is currently available for use by the energy sub-discipline network, which includes bp Solutions and site energy engineers.
•
 b
px energy: projects focused on improving 
energy efficiency, including further electrification in Texas, conversion of continuous chemical treatment to a batch process reducing energy demand, and installation of solar air compressors to reduce reliance on imported electricity. The connection of multiple wells to our Bingo central delivery point reduces wellsite footprint and results in infrastructure emission reductions. The facility also utilizes instrument air instead of natural gas to operate pneumatic devices. In Eagle Ford, the Hawkville North East central facility point is undergoing an expansion to replace natural gas-driven compressors with electric-driven compressors. bpx energy has also been decommissioning legacy central delivery points that use natural gas-driven pneumatics and compressors and reroute them through a new central delivery point, utilizing electric- driven equipment. 
•
 R
efining:  projects delivered across refining 
included cooling water infrastructure and hydrocracker improvement projects to reduce emissions and production optimization at Lingen.
•
 N
orth Sea: operations  have delivered a series 
of compressor optimization projects. ETAP has upgraded a gas turbine generator with a new combustion system that maintains power output and reduces fuel demand. Clair Ridge has optimized compressor discharge pressure to reduce compression power demand while still maintaining stable production rates. 
•
 G
ulf of Mexico: projects included turbine 
generator controls upgrades to reduce fuel consumption, trialling a reduced spinning reserve (see definition in next paragraph), LED
 
light replacement and water injection 
pump optimization. Optimization assessments conducted on drilling operations at Mad Dog have reduced the number of diesel generators being used on site. Equipment upgrades are taking place across Thunder Horse with the replacement of older T-Gens units with more energy efficient ones. Alongside this, the pressure of
 
export gas compressors is being lowered, 
resulting in slightly lower power requirements.
As part of managing energy efficiency, we take a
 
portfolio-wide approach to assessing and 
prioritizing spinning reserve reduction opportunities. Spinning reserve involves running additional power generation machines to provide an excess of energy supply. This can help to protect production from plant vulnerabilities, including power generation reliability. Reducing spinning reserve can increase exposure to power fluctuations for production. We take a risk-based approach when considering reducing the number of running machines. This allows bp to realize emissions and maintenance cost reductions from fewer running machines, while managing the associated production risk.
In production and operations we held energy  
and carbon workshops in the North Sea, 
Tangguh, AGT and the Gulf of Mexico. Each refinery developed draft plans for what it plans to do for energy reduction between now and 2030. These ideas are across maintenance, optimization and projects.
In 2023 we finished developing our real-time 
digital carbon and energy dashboards for all refineries to monitor energy performance and alert employees when energy use is high. In refining we held workshops at Whiting and Gelsenkirchen to develop new energy reduction ideas. These ideas were then prioritized and developed at Whiting and Gelsenkirchen, and introduced at Cherry Point.bp is involved in several external groups working on energy efficiency, including the Oil & Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) and Energy Star. We run an annual training course for new chemical engineers, which includes energy efficiency and we offer GHG emissions and energy efficiency training for more experienced engineers and practitioners.
Reporting methodology
Our approach to reporting GHG emissions broadly follows the Ipieca, API, IOGP Petroleum Industry Guidelines and the GHG Protocol for Reporting GHG Emissions. We calculate GHG emissions based on fuel consumption and fuel properties for major sources, such as flares.
We report CO
2 and methane. We do not 
include nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride as they are not material to our operations and it is not currently practical to collect this data at scale.
Energy consumption is monitored and reported 
centrally from all operated sites by fuel type. This includes all energy, both imported and self-produced, used to run our operations and aligned with our GHG reporting boundary, but excludes energy content of flared or vented gas. Although flaring and venting reflects loss of energy resources, it does not reflect energy use required for production or manufacturing of products.
Ratio of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
to gross production
bp reports a ratio of Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions to gross production, see SECR table on page 51 . This covers all our Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions on an operational control boundary basis and uses gross operated sales from our operated oil and gas facilities, refinery throughput and petrochemicals produced. The denominator uses output from production businesses, refineries and petrochemical facilities, which account for 96% of total operated emissions. The intensity ratio has improved due to our aim 1 reductions, as described on page 48 .
The ratio provided in the SECR table uses production and throughput from our operated upstream, refining and chemicals businesses as a measure of output which can be consistently reported against. We report data on a consolidated basis in the Annual Report and Form 20-F  and this differs to the production and 
throughput used for the ratio in the SECR table, which aligns with the operated emissions reporting boundary.Sustainability continued

53
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Improving people’s lives
Our aims provide focus and structure for the actions we take to improve people’s lives whether they work 
for bp, for our suppliers, or live in communities close to our operations.
These aims are focused on how we think bp can make the biggest difference in the places where we work. 
They build on strong social impact and risk management requirements and guidance in our Operating Management System (OMS)
.
For detailed information on our aims 11-15 and performance in 2023, see bp.com/sustainability
Human rights
We believe everyone deserves to be treated 
with
 
fairness, respect and dignity. We strive 
to
 
conduct our business in a responsible way, 
respecting the human rights of our employees and everyone we come into contact with.
Our human rights policy and our code of 
conduct help us do that. Our policy aligns 11
Our aim 11  is to develop enough clean energy 
to benefit more than 36 million people.  
What we’ve achieved
•
 B
rought 0.4GW to FID in 2023, for a total 
of 6.2GWa.
•
 O
ur renewables projects pipeline at the 
end of 2023 was 58.3GW (bp net), an 
increase of 21.1GW from 2022. This included 4GW in offshore wind, 5.3GW in solar and an increase in dedicated hydrogen renewables of 12.4GW.
•
 S
upported projects to enable access to 
lower carbon, affordable energy in local communities in Indonesia and Angola.
14
Our aim 14  is greater diversity, equity and 
inclusion for our workforce and customers, and to increase supplier diversity spend to $650 million for US-related spend
c.
What we’ve achieved
•
 L
aunched a global initiative to encourage 
our employees to voluntarily disclose 
their identity data in our HR systems (where legally permissible to do so). 
•
 D
elivered Race4Equity training to almost 
100% of our senior leaders and committed more than $4 million to offer scholarships and industry experience at three historically Black US colleges to provide career development support.13
Our aim 13  is helping more than one  
million people build sustainable livelihoods and resilience.
What we’ve achieved
•
 O
ur analysis confirmed that in 2023, as 
in
 
2022, we paid all our employees a fair 
wageb (in determining which, we take 
account of factors such as local market 
conditions).
•
 R
eviewed the impact and alignment with 
our aims of our existing social investment portfolio. 12
Our aim 12  is to support a just energy 
transition that advances human rights and education.
What we’ve achieved
•
 E
ngaged with local communities as we 
developed hydrogen and CCS projects 
with JV partners in Teesside (UK) and various projects in Western Australia, to help better understand their needs.
•
 I
mproved risk assessment tool for 
security and human rights. Using this tool, we identified security and human rights risks at 30 of 230 operated assets and put in place relevant measures to prevent or mitigate them.
15
Our aim 15  is to enhance the health and 
wellbeing of our employees, contractors and local communities.  
What we’ve achieved
•
 C
ontinued to promote our global 
wellbeing platform Thrive@bp and 
implemented new platforms for employees in the US and China.
•
 L
aunched a number of health and 
wellbeing campaigns globally for both employees and the communities in which we operate including in India, where Castrol is running initiatives for
 
truck drivers.
with
 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and
 
Human Rights. It is underpinned by the 
International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including its core conventions. These include the rights of our workforce and those living in communities potentially affected by our activities.
a T he aggregate quantity, net to bp, of renewable generating capacity that has been developed to the point of final investment decision.
b
 A w
age that meets employees’ basic needs. Analysis excluded employees in recently acquired companies.
c
 I
n 2023 we reset our supplier diversity target from $1 billion to $650 million annual spend by 2025, see page 71 .To support our teams, we provide human rights 
training and other awareness-raising activities. In 2023 this included training on identifying and managing labour rights and modern slavery risks.
bp.com/humanrights

54
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Caring for our planet
Our sustainability frame includes a focus on making a positive difference to the environment in which 
we operate.
These aims build on our environmental impact and risk management requirements, and guidance 
in 
our OMS.
For detailed information on our aims 16-20 and performance in 2023, see bp.com/sustainability
Biodiversity
Our biodiversity position builds on the robust 
practices already in place to manage biodiversity across bp projects.
We have applied our net positive impact (NPI) 
biodiversity methodology on new in scope projects, including the Northern Endurance Partnership Development in the UK and the Ubidari Carbon Capture project in Indonesia. We are also building our capability and understanding of the methodology across our project teams to support delivery of our NPI objective. We have provided training, coaching and expert advice to help build the skills required.
bp.com/biodiversity19
Our aim 19  is to unlock new sources of value 
through circularity.
What we’ve achieved 
•
 I
ncluded our circularity framework as 
guidance in our OMS and highlighted 
circularity as a focus area for operations to consider when planning new projects.
•
 I
ntroduced circularity measures across 
our convenience business. For example, we are now offering reusable cups and bowls across Germany, through a deposit system called Recup and Rebowl.18
Our aim 18  is championing nature-based 
solutions and enabling certified natural climate solutions.
What we’ve achieved 
•
 W
orked on finalizing our nature-based 
solutions (NbS) action plan, which 
focuses on ways of embedding nature into our engineering designs for new projects and existing operations.
•
 C
ontinued to build our portfolio of 
natural carbon solutions voluntary carbon projects.17
Our aim 17  is becoming water positive 
by 2035.  
What we’ve achieved 
•
 C
ontinued site-based water assessments 
to help operational efficiency, at 
Rotterdam, Cherry Point, Lingen and Whiting refineries.
•
 S
igned up to support three catchment 
collaboration projects in Azerbaijan in 2023 as part of our aim to work with others to replenish water.
20
Our aim 20  is developing a more Sustainable 
Supply Chain.
What we’ve achieved 
•
 P
ublished bp procurement’s new 
Sustainable Purchasing Position  in 
November 2023.
•
 U
pdated ‘ bp’s expectations of its suppliers’ 
to reflect both an update to our code of 
conduct in 2022 and the new sustainable purchasing position.
bp.com/sustainablepurchasing
Our water consumption in 2023
We saw a 29% fall in freshwater withdrawals and a 15% fall in freshwater consumption, compared with our 2020 baseline
a. This was largely due to 
the divestment of the Toledo refinery, however other changes were attributable to the reconfiguration of Kwinana, turnaround activity at Castellón and use of non-freshwater sources in bpx energy Eagle Ford. This was partially offset by increases in consumption at Cherry Point owing to the introduction of the new hydrocracker and cooling water infrastructure projects, and an increase in drilling and completions activity at our bpx energy La Ha operations.At major operating sites, 73% of our total freshwater withdrawals and 36% of freshwater consumption were from regions with high or extremely high water stress in 2023. This is a significant increase from 2022 (0.1% and 0.6% respectively) and is due to an update to World Resource Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct
TM 4.0 in 
2023 which changed the distribution of water stressed areas. As a result three of our refineries are located in regions that are now considered to have higher water stress.
Air emissions
We monitor our air emissions – including SOx, NOx and non-methane hydrocarbons – and, where possible, put measures in place to reduce the potential impact of our operational activities on local communities and the environment. In 2023 our total air emissions remained relatively flat compared with 2022.
bpx energy contributed to these results by 
reducing its non-methane hydrocarbon emissions by 5% through various interventions including electrification, compressor optimization, base well tie-ins, new well designs and flaring reduction projects.
bp.com/ESGdata16
Our aim 16  is making a positive impact 
through our actions to restore, maintain and enhance biodiversity where we work.
What we’ve achieved 
•
 F
unded two new biodiversity restoration 
projects – Zangilan Forest restoration in 
Azerbaijan and marine habitat restoration in the River Tees in the UK.
•
 I
dentified and implemented biodiversity 
enhancement activities in and around operations at Cherry Point refinery in the US, and in Azerbaijan-Georgia-Türkiye.Sustainability continued
a T he baseline freshwater consumption is defined as 55.9 million m3 per year.

55
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373We support the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), 
which was established by the Financial Stability Board to improve the reporting of climate-related risks and opportunities.Climate-related financial disclosuresa
Our aim 9 is to be a recognized industry leader 
in the transparency of reporting and we want to work constructively, where possible, with the TCFD, and others, to develop good practices and standards for transparency. In 2023 we continued to work with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in relation to their ongoing ’Climate Scenario Analysis Reference Approach for Companies in the Energy System’. Read about how we have used the WBCSD Scenario Catalogue
b to inform 
our own scenario analysis on page 66 .
TCFD statement
We report in line with the FCA Listing Rule LR 9.8.6(8)
c, which requires us to report on a 
‘comply or explain’ basis against the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023
d.
We consider our climate-related financial disclosures to be consistent with all of the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures and that they are therefore compliant with Listing Rule 9.8.6(8). We have set
 
out our disclosures against each TCFD 
Recommended Disclosure and in doing so have covered both the Recommended Disclosure and the related Recommendation
e. We have made 
disclosures that take into consideration references made to the materiality of information in the Recommendations related to
 
Strategy and Metrics and Targets. In 
determining materiality for these purposes we considered whether particular information may have the potential to influence the economic decisions of our shareholders. We have also, where appropriate, considered the TCFD guidance and other supporting materials referred to in the Listing Rules
f. In the Strategy 
(b) section below, we describe elements of our
 
plans for the transition to a lower carbon 
economy as we execute our strategy.As explained on page 14 , we consider our 
strategy to be consistent with the goals of the
 
Paris Agreement. The strategy has been 
developed taking into consideration, among other things, the bp Energy Outlook 2023 scenarios (described on page 10 ), which take 
account of climate commitments and pledges made by countries in which we operate alongside a range of other factors.
In preparing our disclosures we have made 
several judgements, and while we are satisfied that they are consistent with the TCFD Recommendations, Recommended Disclosures and reporting requirements under the UK CFD Regulations, we will continue to evaluate our options for future disclosures. We will monitor guidance as it evolves and consider opportunities to enhance our disclosures.
Governance
TCFD Recommendation: 
Disclose the organization’s governance 
around climate-related issues and opportunities.
Recommended Disclosure: 
a. Describe the board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and opportunities. 
b. Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities.
The role of the board is to promote the long-term sustainable success of the company, generating value for our shareholders while having regard to the interests of our other stakeholders and the impact of our operations on the communities where we operate and the environment.In performing this role, the board sets and monitors bp’s strategy. It is responsible for monitoring bp’s management and operations and obtaining assurance about the delivery of
 
its strategy.
Any changes to the company’s purpose, strategy and values (which we call ‘Who we are’) are reserved for the board for approval in accordance with the board-approved corporate governance framework.
The board’s responsibilities extend to oversight 
of bp’s internal control and risk management framework, including climate-related risks and opportunities. These responsibilities are set out in the terms of reference of the board, available online at bp.com/governance .
The board considers that our strategy allows bp
 
to be flexible to adapt to the evolution of 
the
 
external environment, including market 
changes, to remain consistent with the Paris goals, see page 33 .
The board and its committees have oversight of
 
climate-related issuesg, which include 
climate-related risks and opportunities. Board and committee activities in respect of climate-related risks and opportunities are set out within the board activities section and committee reports respectively, which can be found on the
 
pages detailed in the table on page 56 .
Climate-related risks and opportunities were discussed at each board meeting covering strategy in 2023, and the committees considered climate-related issues where appropriate to do so in fulfilling their responsibilities. Oral reports from each of the committee chairs are given at board meetings to keep the board apprised of the relevant matters discussed including, where applicable, climate-related risks and opportunities.
The board also reviewed documents containing 
climate-related disclosures.
a T his section provides disclosures pursuant to the FCA Listing Rule LR 9.8.6(8) and in line with the Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022  
(The UK CFD Regulations). In the main, we consider our TCFD disclosures achieve UK CFD compliance. Where additional information has been provided beyond our TCFD disclosures to  
achieve compliance with the CFD Regulations, this has been specifically called out.
b
 O
ur 2023 analysis used data from the WBCSD Climate Scenario Catalogue version 2.0, published on 31-03-2023 and downloaded on 01-02-2024.
c h
ttps://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/instrument/2020/FCA_2020_75.pdf.
d
 I
n considering the consistency of our disclosures with the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures we have had regard to, among other things, the documents referred to  
in LR 9.8.6B and 6C, as applicable to the financial year 2023.
e
 I
n preparing the disclosures we have referred to the TCFD implementation guidance ’Annex: Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(October 2021)’, available from fsb-tcfd.org/publication.
f
 L
R 9.8.6B and LR 9.8.6C.
g
 W
e interpret the term ’climate-related issues’ to relate primarily to those climate-related risks and opportunities for bp which are relevant to the delivery of long-term shareholder value in the  
context of the low carbon transition.

56
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023The board continues to develop its knowledge and expertise on climate-related and sustainability matters. For example, in 2023, the board took part 
in the following:
Renewables and power transition growth
 engine 
updateIncluded recent progress on and plans for offshore wind. Held to assist the board in remaining abreast of key energy 
transition risks and opportunities.
Hydrogen transition growth engine updateHeld to assist the board in remaining abreast of key energy transition risks and opportunities.
Energy and economic update The briefing was given by our chief economist on developments shaping the key political and societal trends currently affecting the energy transition, following publication of the bp Energy Outlook 2023 in January 2023. Given to assist the board in remaining abreast of key developments fundamental to implementation of bp’s strategy and net zero ambition and aims.
The board is due to receive further updates  
on bp’s transition growth engines and climate and sustainability in 2024. 
Our company secretary’s office manages the 
process by which board and committee agendas are set and works closely with teams  in bp to develop materials that assist the board to discharge its responsibilities, including in respect of climate-related issues.
The board believes its members possess the 
necessary expertise related to climate change and sustainability to support the group’s strategy. In particular, six of our non-executive directors have specific climate change and sustainability expertise, as set out here. 
This determination is based on an assessment 
of their background and experience, with  focus on their background in the energy sector, experience in executive roles and depth of experience in sustainability and climate  change, including climate-related risks  and opportunities.
For more general director skills information, 
see page 96 , for director’s biographies see 
pages 83-85 and bp.com/board
•
 D
ame Amanda Blanc  is the current serving 
CEO at Aviva plc and has held several 
executive roles across the industry. She is
 
co-chair of the UK Transition Taskforce 
and
 
Principal Member of Glasgow Financial 
Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).
•
 He
lge Lund  has extensive experience in 
the
 
energy sector and deep knowledge 
and 
global experience including stakeholder 
considerations regarding climate change risk and opportunities. He has chaired the board through the development of bp’s strategy and net zero ambition and continues to have oversight of the delivery of that strategy. He served as a member of the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Group on Sustainable Energy from 2011 to 2014. •
  H ina Nagarajan  has over 30 years’ 
experience in senior roles within the customer-focused FMCG sector, which is invaluable in support of bp’s convenience transition growth engine. As CEO of United Spirits Limited (Diageo plc’s listed Indian subsidiary), she has overseen the implementation of Diageo India’s 10-year ESG action plan, and its Society 2030 mission, in addition to a number of other sustainability initiatives.
•
 J
ohannes Teyssen brings CEO experience 
from his time at EoN, where under his leadership, it split its hydrocarbons and non-hydrocarbons businesses – giving him
 
significant experience of considering 
climate-related risks and opportunities. He
 
has sat on bp’s safety and sustainability 
committee since 2021. He is a director of Alpiq Holding AG, a Swiss energy services provider and electricity producer in Europe.
•
 Me
lody Meyer  has deep-rooted operational 
experience in the energy sector which equips her to advise on climate-related risks and opportunities. She has chaired bp’s safety and sustainability committee since November 2019, which oversees the implementation of bp’s sustainability framework and net zero ambition.
•
 S
atish Pai has extensive experience in the 
resource and energies industries. He is managing director of metals company, Hindalco Industries Limited, and leads the
 
company’s Sustainability Board in 
overseeing sustainability initiatives – such as sustainable mining practices, energy conservation and recycling. He has served on the bp safety and sustainability committee since March 2023.Board and committees’ 
consideration of climate-related issues
For examples from the year ended 
31 December 2023, see the text indicated with a 
 on the pages set out below.
The board 
pages 90-91
People and governance committee  
page 94
Audit committee  
page 98
Safety and sustainability committee  
page 103
Remuneration committee  
page 105Climate-related financial disclosures continued

57
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373The role of management 
The board, subject to certain conditions and 
limitations, delegates day-to-day management of the business of the company to the CEO. The CEO is responsible for proposing bp’s strategy to the board for approval and leading the bp leadership team in delivering bp’s strategy and annual plan. 
Under this delegation, the CEO is responsible  
for overseeing the implementation of a 
comprehensive system of internal controls that are designed to, among other things (a) identify and manage risks that are material to bp, (b) protect bp’s assets, and (c) monitor the application of bp’s resources in a manner that meets external regulatory standards. Risks, for these purposes, include the climate-related risks and opportunities for bp associated with the issue of climate change and the transition to  a lower carbon economy. This is set out in the CEO role profile at bp.com/board . 
The assessment and management of climate-related risks and opportunities is embedded across bp at various levels and delegated authority flows down from the board through the CEO. See page 73 for more information on risk governance and oversight. 
Management consideration of climate-related risks and opportunities is organized as follows: 
Resource commitment meeting Forum for approval of investments related to existing and new lines of business above $250 million 
or $25 million for acquisitions, or which exceed the relevant EVP financial authority, and any project considered strategically important such as a new market entry, see page 31 .
Group sustainability committee Provides oversight, challenge and support in the implementation of bp’s sustainability frame and the management of potentially significant non-operational sustainability (including climate-related) risks and opportunities. It met four times in 2023. During 2023 the committee considered progress embedding sustainability, performance against targets and bp’s position on certain strategic sustainability issues that present risks or opportunities to delivery. This committee is chaired by the EVP strategy, sustainability & ventures (SS&V) and comprises members of the bp leadership team.
The outputs from the committee are shared with the board and its committees, including the safety 
and sustainability committee, as appropriate.
Group operational risk committee Provides oversight of safety and operational risk management performance for the group, where appropriate. Climate-related factors may affect certain sources of safety and operational risk, such as severe weather events.
Group financial risk committee Monitors the effectiveness of bp’s financial reporting, systems of internal control and financial risk management, namely material group financial risks. In 2023, in relation to climate-related risks and opportunities, it considered the proposed TCFD strategy disclosures and planned approach to assurance and verification of non-financial reporting (including climate-related reporting) ahead of
 
discussion with the audit committee.2023 activity 
Where considered appropriate, climate-related 
risks and opportunities were discussed at bp leadership team meetings in 2023 as part of regular business performance updates produced for these meetings.
The bp leadership team provides oversight of 
risk, including climate-related risk, through the various committees described on page 73 .  
The leadership team is informed about and monitors emerging risks via the ’emerging risk’ paper, produced by our SVP treasury, which focuses primarily on short- to medium-term emerging risk. Members of the leadership  team receive information on the longer-term  risks and opportunities associated with the energy transition via updates produced by  our chief economist. These papers are shared with the board. SVP level and beyond 
The bp leadership team is supported by bp’s senior-level leadership and their respective teams, with dedicated business and functional expertise focused on climate-related risks and opportunities or on matters which may be affected by such risks and opportunities.  This includes: health, safety, environment and carbon; risk; strategy and sustainability (which includes our carbon ambition, policy and economics teams). Alignment between  group, business and functional leaders is fostered through other meetings, for example, the Strategy and Sustainability Management Forum in C&P or the TCFD working group which leads the preparation of bp’s TCFD disclosures. 
Acquired businesses
Integration plans are developed to transition acquired businesses into bp’s system of internal control, over an appropriate timeframe.

Climate governance: management of climate-related matters 
As at 1 January 2024
Board
CEO
bp leadership teamSafety and sustainability
committeeAudit committee Remuneration committee People and governance
committeebp board level
EVP level
Meetings and forums to allow cross-group discussions, integration and implementation. SVP level
Cross bp forums and meetingsGroup sustainability committee
Chair: EVP SS&V Oversight of sustainability matters.   Group operational risk committee  Chair: CEOOversight of the group’s safety and operational risk management performance, safety agenda and priorities.Group financial risk committeeChair: CFOOversight of ﬁnance, treasury, trading and cyber risks.Resource commitment meeting Chair: CEO Attended by CFO, EVP SS&V, EVP I&E. Observed by EVP legal and SVP internal audit.
Sustainability forum
Chair: SVP sustainabilityFocused on sustainability plans and progress. Production & operations carbon table Chair: SVP HSE & carbon, P&OFocuses on the delivery of lower carbon plans in P&O – particularly in relation to net zero aims 1 and 4.Issues and advocacy meetingChair: SVP external affairs, C&EA  Policy and advocacy issues, including those related to climate matters.
58
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Risk Management
TCFD Recommendation: 
Disclose how the organization identifies, 
assesses and manages climate-related risks.
Recommended Disclosure: 
a. Describe the organization’s processes 
for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
bp’s risk management system and policy, 
described on page 73 , are designed to address 
all types of risks including our principal risks and
 
uncertainties described on page 74 .
As part of this system, our businesses, integrators and enablers are responsible for
 
identifying, assessing, managing and 
monitoring risks associated with their business or functional area. The process for identifying risks is outlined on page 74 and guidance to support consistency has been made available to our businesses, integrators and enablers to provide them with a climate-related framework and taxonomy, which they are able to use as they see fit in their identification and assessment of risk.
Where risks – including climate-related risks 
– are identified, businesses, integrators and enablers are required to assess them, in line with our risk management policy. This includes an impact and likelihood assessment which supports the consideration of relative significance and prioritization of risk management activities.
The impact criteria outlined on page 74 include 
health and safety, environmental, financial and non-financial (such as regulatory impact) criteria and are used for assessing risks, including climate-related risks. This provides a
 
consistent basis for assessment across bp.
For the purposes of our TCFD disclosures, we continue to make use of the TCFD’s distinction between ’physical’ and ’transition’ climate-related risks.Identification, assessment and 
management of climate-related opportunities
a
As set out in our TCFD Strategy A and B 
disclosures on page 60 , we have identified 
potentially material climate-related opportunities and our strategy to transition to an integrated energy company has been informed by these. We identify climate-related opportunities by considering a range of information sources, including the bp Energy Outlook  (see page 10 ), which helps to inform 
our core beliefs about the energy transition. Business opportunities are originated across bp, and taken forward through bp’s investment governance framework, see page 31 .
Our gas & low carbon energy business is accountable for the delivery of many of our low carbon opportunities through both organic and inorganic growth (see page 74 ). Our investment 
governance framework (see page 31 ) provides 
the mechanism by which alignment of these opportunities with our strategy is assessed and decisions on which to progress are made. Climate-related financial disclosures continued
a I nformation added to satisfy the UK CFD Regulations.

59
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Recommended Disclosure: 
b. Describe the organization’s processes 
for managing climate-related risks.
c. Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall Risk Management.
Risk Management process
Risks which may be identified include potential effects on operations at asset level, performance at business level and developments at regional level from extreme weather or the transition to a lower carbon economy.
As part of our annual process the bp leadership 
team and board review the group’s principal risks and uncertainties. Climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy continues to be identified as a principal risk, see page 75 . 
It covers various aspects of how risks associated with the energy transition could manifest. Physical risks such as extreme weather, which may be affected or intensified by
 
climate change, are covered in our principal 
risks related to safety and operations.
Physical risk
Physical risks are typically identified at the asset or project level and are managed depending on the level of risk assessed.
In the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico, regions 
more prone to severe weather conditions, our offshore facilities monitor meteorological and oceanographic conditions through the collection of measurements. This data is collated and periodically compared against the ’Basis of Design’ for the facility. If significant differences are observed, then this may trigger an update to the ’Basis of Design’, prompting action to reassess risks such as structural integrity and station-keeping and if necessary, implement additional risk mitigations, for example updating procedures for shutting down and removing personnel from facilities ahead of severe weather events. Updates may also be made as a result of other new knowledge, analysis methods and data, including climate projections where appropriate.
Our major projects are required to assess 
the
 
potential impact of severe weather and 
projected climate-related physical impacts. Where relevant, potential changes in environmental conditions, such as sea level rise and ambient temperatures, over the expected lifetime of a project are to be considered as part of the design process.Building on a modelling exercise conducted in 2022, in 2023 we implemented a screening approach to support identification of potential severe weather and physical climate-related hazards at operational sites. Screening was conducted for a number of onshore sites and, where potential hazards have been identified, and as appropriate, this enables further work to
 
be carried out to assess potential risks and 
implement appropriate management measures.
For other assets, such as our retail sites , that 
are typically not exposed to a comparable level 
of severe weather risk, climate-related risks such as flooding or wind damage may be managed where appropriate through the emergency response plans and business continuity plans which are mandated through company-wide policies.
Additionally, at a group level we recognize risk 
associated with the potential for increased water scarcity due to climate change and other factors and the impact this could have on our operations and in the catchments where we operate. In order to understand the water-related challenges that we face, we review our water impacts, risks and opportunities at our major operating sites. These reviews consider the quantity and quality of water used as well as any
 
regulatory requirements. Over time, we 
anticipate site-level activities in support of our aim 17 contributing to our management of water-related risks and opportunities. Under aim 17, we aim to replenish more fresh water than we consume in our operations by being more efficient in operational freshwater use and effluent management. And, by collaborating with others to replenish fresh water in stressed and scarce catchment areas where we operate.
Transition risk
The board appraises bp’s strategy and monitors bp’s management and operations to obtain assurance over the delivery of its strategy. This
 
approach enables the effective management 
of climate-related transition risks and opportunities facing bp associated with the energy transition. For the purposes of our TCFD disclosures, we have grouped transition risks identified by our businesses, integrators and enablers, into the three broad material climate-related transition risks to bp, see page 61 . 
However, we continue to assess and manage the component parts of those broad transition risks, including:
Policy and legal risks
Our policy and partnerships team monitors and develops policy positions in line with bp’s sustainability aims. This team works with our regional organization as well as corporate entities to discuss regional and global policy trends and support external positioning and interactions relating to policy and advocacy topics. 
Our group sustainability committee provides 
oversight of sustainability matters and our issues and advocacy meeting covers emerging advocacy issues.
Our legal team manages bp’s litigation, including 
climate-related litigation and advises on the management of associated risks. This includes the use of internal lawyers and, where appropriate, external counsel.
Market risks
In developing our business strategies, we consider market risks, controls and mitigations, including future demand in the different geographies in which we might operate, the competitive landscape and the potential value proposition. We manage these risks through our
 
investment decisions, our hedging and 
optimization activity, and through key business processes, including the group investment assurance and approval process.
Reputational risks
Our investor relations and communications & external affairs (C&EA) teams work to mitigate reputation-related risks, which include the risk of shareholder action. Our investor relations team co-ordinates engagement with key investors on both a bilateral basis and through investor initiatives to support understanding of bp’s strategy and gain insights to inform feedback they provide to the group.
Our C&EA team manages corporate reputation 
through identification and monitoring of key issues and both proactive and reactive engagement with relevant stakeholder groups to communicate bp’s positions. Under our aim 6, which is to actively advocate for policies that promote net zero, the team also leads advocacy campaigns for policies that support net zero, see page 50 .
Technology risks
Our technology team works to both mitigate risks and identify opportunities associated with evolving and emerging technologies that play a role in the changing global energy system. The team generates technology assessments and disruptive technology reports for review by bp senior executives and the recommendations are overseen by the bp leadership team, through the Innovation Advisory Council. In appropriate cases this helps to underpin and appraise the business case for new investments, new partnerships, new customer offers or new business models where these are being driven by technology innovation.

60
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategy 
TCFD Recommendation:
Disclose the actual and potential impacts 
of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s business, strategy and financial planning where such information is material.
Recommended Disclosure:
a. Describe the climate-related risk and 
opportunities that the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long
 t
erm.
In setting and monitoring delivery of bp’s strategy, the board and leadership team consider climate-related risks and opportunities across the:
•
 S
hort term (to 2025): aligning with our 
near-term business and financial planning 
timeframe.
•
 M
edium term  (to 2030): aligning with our 
group business outlook timeframe, and enabling us to think beyond our short-term targets and adjust course if appropriate.
•
 L
ong term  (to 2050): using scenarios to help 
explore the wide range of uncertainties surrounding the energy transition over the next 30 years. For more detail on our approach, see page 11 .
TCFD categorizes climate-related transition risk and opportunity as follows: policy and legal, market, reputation and technology. It also refers to climate-related acute and chronic physical risks and opportunities. Risks in each of these categories have been identified using a risk management process that our businesses, integrators and enablers are required to follow. For more about how the relative significance of
 
identified risks is evaluated, see Risk 
Management on page 58 .
Climate-related transition risks 
and 
opportunities
At a group level, we have identified three 
broad, material climate-related transition risks, underpinned by underlying risks that are assessed and managed through the risk process outlined overleaf on page 61 . 
These transition risks may cut across our short-, medium- and long-term time horizons; however, we indicate below wherever there is a particular time horizon in which the risk has been considered. The transition risks are also global in nature, so we do not discuss specific geographies here, but the underlying risks refer to specific geographies 
a U nderlying risks are specific, for example, local or business-specific risks identified by specific bp entities through the risk processes described above under Risk Management.
b
 T
his is not intended to be an exhaustive list of our plans for the transition, but rather illustrative of some of the core elements of our plans.where appropriatea. We also see significant 
potential for upside – or opportunity – 
associated with some of these risks. These are discussed under each risk on page 61  
and in relation to Recommended Disclosure (b) we also describe the potential impacts of both the risks and opportunities to bp.
Climate-related physical risks
The physical risks we have identified primarily relate to severe weather and often represent potential for increased drivers for safety and operational risks to our operations, particularly process safety, personal safety, and environmental risks, see Risk factors page 77 . In addition, we have identified the 
potential for changes in the availability of freshwater, including as a result of climate change, as a risk to some of our operations. Higher instances of extreme weather also have the potential to impact supply chains and critical infrastructure, such as air and sea ports, as well as our customers. 
We recognize that we could also face other 
forms of physical climate-related risk over the longer term, for example associated with changes in sea level rise, extreme temperatures and flooding, which could impact our operations. As these risks are primarily operational, and location-specific, they are not grouped in the same way as transition risks.
Offshore facilities
In the case of our offshore facilities, climate change could create greater uncertainty around frequency and/or intensity of severe weather events, such as extreme waves, loop currents, and storms, particularly in the medium to long term. These factors could affect the future risk profile of an asset over its lifetime, and could also impact production or costs. 
Water resources
Water resources are increasingly under pressure from various factors, including climate change, and this poses a potential risk to some of our operations that depend on the availability of freshwater. Based on analysis using the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Global Water Risk Atlas, eight of our 17 major operating sites in 2023 were located in regions with medium to extremely high water stress. We have identified the potential for this risk to increase in the medium term. For more on water consumption, see page 54 .Climate-related financial disclosures continued
In common with other businesses around the world, in the longer term we could face adverse market or value chain conditions associated with large-scale cumulative impacts of physical climate change if global mitigation and adaptation efforts are insufficient or unsuccessful. We support the goals of the Paris Agreement and believe that the best mitigation against these types of physical risk is to seek to contribute along with others to the success of global climate mitigation efforts. Our strategy seeks to position us to make such a positive contribution. 
We do not currently foresee any material 
opportunities arising from changes in the physical environment as a result of climate change. However, the actions we are taking to make our operations more resilient, for example through improving efficiency of our freshwater use, may also bring about benefits such as reduced costs.
Recommended Disclosure:
b. Describe the impact of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and
 fi
nancial planning.
bp’s plans for the energy transition
We describe below how we believe our strategy and net zero ambition are both good for business and support society’s drive towards the Paris goals. 
In this section we talk about some of our 
plans for the transition and where we do so we have identified these with 
.b
Throughout the strategic report we set out bp’s strategy and plans for the energy transition. This includes our progress against our strategic pillars and transition growth engines, see pages 18-23 .
Our progress against our net zero aims and the actions we are taking to help the world get to net zero are described on pages 48-50 .
 Our strategy is to transition to be an 
integrated energy company, focused on delivering solutions for customers. This strategy, together with our net zero ambition and aims (see page 48 ), has been informed by 
various inputs, including the climate-related risks and opportunities associated with the energy transition described above; the same is true of our financial and business processes. We describe how we use scenarios to inform our strategy on page 11 .

61
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Our ambition is to be a net zero company by 
2050 or sooner, and to help the world get to net zero. 
Resilient hydrocarbons : recognizing the 
uncertainty that the energy transition 
presents to our hydrocarbons
 business, 
our focus for that area of our business remains on high-grading our portfolio while maximizing returns and cash flow and working to reduce operational emissions.
This focus is underpinned by a resource base 
that allows us to choose the best investments and the optionality to allocate capital through the transition; we also plan to divest around 200,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of lower margin assets by 2030. We have made strong progress on improving operational reliability and commerciality across our portfolio over the past few years, which we expect to help enhance the resilience of those assets through the transition.
We expect our 2030 production to be 
around 2mmboe/d after divestments.
To enable resilience to lower oil and gas prices 
which could result from the transition, as well as to deliver value, we intend to maintain the disciplined application of our balanced investment criteria, which include the consideration of hurdle rates of 15-20% from a balanced portfolio across oil and gas. We also intend to drive capital productivity through strong execution capability and sustain cost efficiency and reliability improvements. See more about our investment process on page 30 .
We are aiming for the Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our operations – the majority of which are associated with the operating assets in our hydrocarbons portfolio (refining and upstream oil and gas combined) – to be 50% lower in 2030 than in 2019, and the Scope 3 emissions associated with our upstream oil and gas production to be 20-30% lower in 2030 than in 2019, see page
 
48. Climate-related transition risks and opportunities
#1 The value of our 
hydrocarbon business could 
be impacted by climate change and the energy transition.Changes in policy, legislation, consumer preferences or markets as a result of growing concerns about 
climate change and the energy transition could reduce demand for fossil fuels or lower their price relative to our financial planning assumptions, particularly in the medium to long term, negatively impacting returns from or the value of our hydrocarbon businesses. Changes in regulations, including carbon pricing and fossil fuel policies, could also impact compliance and operating costs in our oil and natural gas production and refining businesses.
Alternatively, demand and/or prices for oil and natural gas and refined products during the next decade could be 
higher than our financial planning assumptions under certain transition pathways, including those aligned with the Paris agreement. This could strengthen returns from our hydrocarbon businesses (including securing higher proceeds from assets we choose to divest) which may enable us to deliver enhanced shareholder value, further strengthen our balance sheet and grow investment in the transition, in line with our financial frame.
#2 Our ability to grow or 
deliver expected returns from 
our transition growth engines could be impacted by the energy transition.Several factors could restrict the growth of our transition engines or returns from them. These factors 
include: lack of, or insufficient development and application of, policies, regulations and frameworks that support low carbon businesses; insufficient consumer demand for our low carbon offering; strong competition in the market; or the insufficiently rapid development of supporting technologies and infrastructure or constraints on supply chains for low carbon energies. This could particularly impact bp in
 
the short to medium term as we seek to grow our low carbon businesses but could also represent a 
longer-term risk.
Alternatively, demand, policy support or enabling technology and supply chain growth for renewables could 
support a more rapid portfolio shift with expansion of our low carbon businesses and higher returns from them.
Some low carbon businesses, including renewable power, bioenergy and emerging technologies such as 
hydrogen and carbon capture and storage (CCS), rely on policy support to promote growth. Our aim 6 is to advocate more actively for policies that support net zero, including carbon pricing (see page 50 ).
Changes in customer preferences, pace of technology and infrastructure development and costs could impact the markets for low carbon products and services. For example, the pace of adoption of electric vehicles (EV) could impact utilization rates, and consequently returns, from our EV charging networks. 
We recognize that the pace of our transition relative to our core low carbon target sectors and regions is 
important. If we move more slowly than those markets, we may miss investment opportunities and customers may prefer different suppliers with potential negative consequences to demand for our products and to our reputation. If we move faster than these markets, we risk investing in technologies or low carbon products that are unsuccessful because there is insufficient demand for them. However, our investment may also help to stimulate demand and provide us with a leading position in growth markets.
#3 Our ability to implement 
our strategy could be 
impacted by changing stakeholder attitudes towards the energy sector, climate change and the energy transition.Negative perceptions of the energy sector, or bp, could have a number of consequences, for example: 
adverse litigation; reputational impacts, including our ability to attract and retain talent; and shareholder action. These consequences could affect us in the short, medium or long term. 
Alternatively, increased support from our stakeholders could enable access to additional capital and new 
investors, strengthening our ability to deliver our strategy and enabling faster growth of our low carbon businesses. The bp Energy Outlook 2023 (see page 10 ) suggests that the increased attention on energy security 
is
 
likely to accelerate the energy transition. Together with the strategic progress we are making, this gives us 
growing confidence in the opportunities of the energy transition. 
Perceived inconsistencies between the pace of bp’s transition and societal expectations could have reputational 
and commercial impacts that might impair our ability to deliver our strategy. However, we also see potential to positively differentiate bp, by delivering against our strategy, ambition and aims.

62
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023We see cash flow from our oil and gas 
businesses as helping to fund our investment into transition growth engines, while delivering shareholder value and helping maintain a strong balance sheet. 
The climate-related transition risks we have 
identified may also impact demand for certain refined products in the future, potentially leading to lower refinery margins and requiring less efficient refineries to be retired. Consequently, we are continuing to drive greater competitiveness and value from our refineries, targeting around 96% Solomon refining availability
 by 2025 and to maintain Solomon 
first quartile net cash margins. 
Our refineries are also a foundation for both our 
bioenergy and hydrogen transition growth engines. In biofuels, we plan to grow production to around 100,000 barrels per day by 2030 (of which ~20,000 barrels would be from co-processing at our refineries). In hydrogen, our existing refining demand is intended to be an anchor to build scale. As a result, we expect throughput to be sustained around current levels while the average carbon intensity of our refined products declines.
Taking account of some of the climate-related 
transition opportunities we have identified, we also aim to increase biogas supply volumes
, 
leveraging our position as the largest US biogas
 
supplier to the road transportation 
sector and expanding our presence in Europe and internationally. 
 Convenience and mobility: given the 
opportunities in low carbon mobility that the energy transition offers, we are growing our EV charging network and seek to be a partner of choice for our customers as they navigate the energy transition. We are also expanding our Castrol  business into the EV and industrial 
coolant sectors, and aiming to be a sector leader in sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) as the aviation industry transitions. 
We recognize the risk of a decline in demand for 
conventional vehicle fuels and products due to the energy transition and we are working to increase the efficiency and resiliency of our existing fuels and lubricants businesses through operating cost reductions and margin optimization. 
Our convenience (non-fuels) business is a 
sizeable and growing part of our mobility ecosystem underpinned by global growth in the
 
convenience and food on-the-go sector. Forecourt convenience is expected to grow in general, even in markets where we see faster fuels declines, helping us to retain and redevelop our retail sites through the energy transition as we deploy new energy sources. 
Our acquisition of TravelCenters of America in 
2023 enables us to respond to demand growth signals and further expand our low carbon fuels offer and our non-fuel offer in the US. We will increase the resilience of our existing fuels network by growing our presence on major transit routes and with fleet customers. 
Our integrated business model across biofuels, 
hydrogen, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and electricity also helps to provide security of supply and to safeguard margins in a potentially supply-constrained faster transition or during periods of high market volatility. However, the speed of the energy transition may impact the pace at which the EV, SAF, biofuels, hydrogen and LNG sectors develop, which could impact revenue from these opportunities. 
 Low carbon energy:  we recognize the 
opportunity to scale up our low carbon energy businesses over the next decade underpinned by growing demand and regulatory support. 
In hydrogen, our ambition remains to become a 
global leader. We aim to leverage bp’s existing refinery demand and growing biofuels ambitions to build regional supply positions, providing low carbon hydrogen and hydrogen derivative solutions to our customers in line with the development of the hydrogen sector. We aim to
 
selectively pursue opportunities to grow our 
low carbon hydrogen production where there is
 
regulatory support and CCS access (blue 
hydrogen ) or significant sustained cost benefit 
(green hydrogen ).
To mitigate uncertainties in the future pace of transition, our hydrogen opportunities are preferentially focused on advantaged locations, while our global hopper offers ongoing investment flexibility. 
In renewable power, we are focusing our 
investments in opportunities where we can create integration value and enhanced returns, participating in service of green hydrogen, and e-fuels, EV charging and power trading (including flexible generation). We are building a global position in offshore wind, enabled by our capability in large-scale, complex offshore projects, and continue to progress a solar development and sell model with Lightsource bp. Within this, we aim to deliver, and largely operate, around 10GW net installed capacity in offshore wind, solar and onshore wind by 2030. As the energy transition drives increasing electrification of the global energy system, our power trading business, which trades renewable and non-renewable electricity, allows us to optimize across the power value chain, from generation, including renewables and flexible generation, across grid markets, to customers. This becomes a differentiating factor in unlocking the full potential value of renewables for bp and helps position us for further electrification of the energy system as well as for further decarbonization of electricity. It may also increasingly help optimize across other value chains like green hydrogen and advanced mobility, that may be dependent on power as an anchor commodity. 
We retain the ability to flex capital between our 
transition growth engines to optimize returns, recognizing the potential for the transition to occur faster or slower than anticipated and on different pathways. To help maintain resilience to the possibility of a slower transition, we also continue to consider whether the necessary regulatory support is in place and seek to secure a customer-backed route to market for a reasonable share of energy produced by our renewable power and hydrogen projects prior to final investment. 
Impact on technology
We are investing in digital and technology solutions that can help to generate value for bp, manage risk and help accelerate the transition through focused scale-up and innovation. Over time, we expect our research and development spend to be increasingly focused on technologies with the potential to reduce carbon emissions and enable our new low carbon businesses. See page 46  for examples of 
technology investments in 2023.
We recognize the potential for disruptive 
technologies to impact our strategy. Alongside our research and development investments, our bp ventures portfolio also includes investments in emerging technologies and business models that may help enable the transition to a low carbon economy. 
Physical risk
The potential impacts of the types of physical risks we have identified could include reduced production, throughput or sales – for example as a result of damage to facilities or supply chain disruption – or in a most extreme case loss of life or an asset. Due to uncertainties associated with the impact of climate change on severe weather events in the future, it is difficult to quantify the potential impacts associated with any increase in these risks as
 
a result of climate change.Climate-related financial disclosures continued

63
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Having considered both geographic 
factors and the ability of climate models to adequately represent future trends in physical climate parameters, we seek to take the uncertainties concerning climate-related physical risk into account in our approach to design and operating criteria for existing assets and new major projects
. Where 
appropriate, we have updated our metocean design criteria to include consideration of both forward-looking and historic models, including climate and synthetic models, in an attempt to mitigate both models and extrapolation uncertainty. The particular models chosen will depend in part on geographic location. See Risk Management, page 58 , 
for how we manage these uncertainties.
As a step in seeking to improve the resilience of 
our operations to the physical changes that might result from climate change that we have described above, we have undertaken screening of present-day and future potential physical risk exposure for selected key assets and identified those sites with potential for heightened exposure to physical risks in order to prioritize these for further site-based assessment.
As part of this prioritized approach, in 2023 we 
completed a detailed site-based study at our Castellón refinery in Spain, which found that the weather hazard contributing the most to risks at site is intense summer storms. Taking account of the results of the study, the Castellón integrity management team are assessing new risk barriers to support mitigation of potential risks. 
Recognizing the potential impact of climate 
change on water resources, as part of our aim 17 to become water positive by 2035, we are taking steps to be more efficient in operational freshwater use and effluent management (see page 54 ). 
Impacts on our financial planning 
Capital allocation: We plan to invest sufficient capital to execute our strategy, enabling us to mitigate the risks and capture the opportunities we have identified. As part of our annual planning processes, we assess the distribution of capital across our business areas, including consideration of market evolution. In February 2024 we announced that we expect capital expenditure to be around $16 billion in 2024 and 2025; and in a range of $14-18 billion through to 2030. We expect the proportion of that investment directed annually towards our five transition growth engines to have grown by 2030 compared to 2024. To help maintain resilience to the pace of transition and access opportunities, we will continue to flex capital as policies, technologies and markets evolve.Access to capital:  While there is potential for 
concerns about the energy transition to impact banks’ or debt investors’ appetite to finance hydrocarbon activity, we do not anticipate any material change to funding in the short to medium term, and our financial frame includes working to maintain a strong investment grade credit rating, targeting further progress on credit metrics within the ’A’ range. In 2022 we reduced our net debt by over $9 billion and by a further $0.5 billion in 2023. Since the end of 2019 we have repurchased around $24 billion of short-dated existing bonds and issued over $12 billion of new bonds with a duration of 20 years or longer, more than doubling the duration of our debt book to over 10 years. Additionally, we have continued to have good access to the commercial paper markets. Subject to maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating, we intend to allocate around 20% of surplus cash flow
 in 2024 to further 
strengthen the balance sheet. We provide more detail on financial risk factors, including liquidity risk in Financial statements – Note 29.
Investment criteria:  Investments are evaluated 
against a balanced set of investment criteria; 
the economic criteria utilize a set of price assumptions that reflect our view of market evolution (for our key investment appraisal price assumptions see page 30 ). In addition, the 
investment economics for all investment cases where annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from operations are anticipated to exceed specific thresholds include a carbon price for those emissions, that rises to $100/teCO
2e 
(2021 $ real) in 2030. 
When taking investment decisions we continue 
to consider six balanced investment criteria – including sustainability (see page 32 ).
Impacts on financial performance 
and 
position
Assessing the impact of climate change and the 
energy transition requires the use of a number of judgements and estimates. We have set out the significant accounting policies, judgements and estimates used in assessing the impact of climate change in Financial statements – Note 1. 
This includes information on pricing, useful 
economic lives, timing of implementation of policies or decommissioning provisions, and assumptions related to how each might change over time and how such assumptions may impact our currently reported assets and liabilities.Our price assumptions, including those set out on page 30 , reflect a range of future possible 
scenarios and take account of the potential impact of climate-related risks and opportunities as well as current economic and geopolitical factors. Consequently, impairment losses and impairment reversals consider inputs that arise from climate change and the energy transition. It is not possible to quantify separately the impact of these different inputs on our impairments. However, in conducting our impairment sensitivity tests, that in part reflect transition downside risk, we consider prices within the range covered by the 1.5°C scenario family within the WBCSD data sets used for TCFD resilience testing below. 
Financial statements – Note 1 provides 
information on impairment assumptions and sensitivities. Note 4 provides information on gains and losses on disposal or closure of business and operations, and impairments and
 
impairment reversals, and Note 8 provides 
information on impairment losses relating to exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources. See Financial statements – Note 1, Note 4 and Note 8 for more information.
Recommended Disclosure:
c. Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Our strategy is designed to be resilient to a range of climate-related scenarios, including those consistent with well-below 2°C and 1.5°C outcomes, see pages 14-15 . 
As in 2022, to help test our view of this, we have assessed the resilience of our strategy to different climate-related scenarios, including 1.5°C consistent scenarios. We did this in three steps:
1.
 F
irst, we evaluated all business areas in our 
portfolio by i) quantitatively assessing their 
financial significance, in the context of bp’s total financial frame, to understand the potential scale of financial/strategic impact that could be put at risk if exposed to transition uncertainty, including 1.5°C; and ii) considered whether there is a key variable – such as price, margin or demand – which would represent a principal transition driver of such risk. 

64
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 20232. S econd, we quantitatively assessed the 
impact, to each business area, of potential 
transition exposure scenarios in 2030 – the point in our planning horizon at which there is widest transition uncertainty. 
–
 F
or each of those business areas with 
both sufficient scale and for which a 
specific transition risk driver was identified – which collectively represent over 80% of our 2030 adjusted EBITDA
 
outlook – we performed a scenario analysis focused on that transition risk driver, across a range of transition pathways
a, including 1.5°C, as set out 
below and in our methodology summary on page 66 . 
–
 F
or each of the remaining business areas 
we performed a simplified quantitative scenario analysis, by testing the financial impact of ’a scenario in which each business area’s expected 2030 adjusted EBITDA is assumed to be reduced to zero – an outcome at least as detrimental to that business area’s adjusted EBITDA as could reasonably be expected to result from business-as-usual (BAU), well-below-2°C and 1.5°C transition pathways’.
 I
n this way, all business areas were 
quantitatively tested at, or beyond, a range of transition scenarios.
3.
 F
inally, on the basis of the results of steps 1 
and 2, we identified those business areas for which the possible consequences of the downside scenario(s) were sufficiently significant to potentially jeopardize group strategic resilience – the only business areas for which this was found to be the case were oil and gas production with respect to their exposure to oil price. For these business areas we assessed the potential implications for bp’s strategic resilience (as defined below) over the full period from 2025 to 2030. 
To undertake steps 2 and 3, we identified financial criteria which can be modelled as proxies for strategic resilience – choosing to do this through three lenses: our ability to continue to (i) deliver a resilient dividend to shareholders, (ii) maintain a strong investment grade credit rating, and (iii) make disciplined investment allocations within our capital frame. These are consistent with our assessment in 2022.This is not intended to represent a ’definition’ of resilience beyond the purposes of this exercise, and a core assumption of this analysis is necessarily that, aside from any implications of the scenarios being tested, including potential controllable mitigations such as capital or cost management that we might naturally expect to take in response, bp will deliver the assumed underlying strategic and financial priorities out to 2030. 
Our approach, described in more detail in box 
’Our approach to testing resilience to transition risk’ on page 66 , is directly applicable to 
transition risks #1 and #2 – as well as their associated opportunities – as these lend themselves to a financially quantified scenario-based analysis. The approach does not directly address transition risk #3 – however, we believe that some of the potential drivers for transition risk #3, namely policy and societal trends, may be implicit in these scenarios, and we believe that the successful execution of our strategy will, over time, help to mitigate this risk to bp as well as positioning us to take advantage of the potential associated opportunities. This scenario analysis exercise also does not directly address climate-related physical risk, our strategic resilience to which is further discussed below. 
Key insights from our scenario analysis 
and resilience test
While the results of any such analysis must be 
treated with caution – each is necessarily dependent on numerous assumptions and methodological choices, and each has its own limitations – overall, this analysis and resilience test reinforced our confidence in the continued resilience of our strategy to a wide range of transition scenarios, including those consistent with limiting temperature rise to 1.5°C, and in particular, as our greatest transition exposure, to
 
oil price scenarios, tested to 2030. In 
undertaking this analysis we observed:
•
 T
here is considerable uncertainty across, 
and often within, each WBCSD Scenario 
Catalogue family in the pace and nature  of the transition to 2030 – and therefore considerable range of financial impact across some of the variables selected for  the analysis, reflecting the complexity and interdependencies of the energy transition (see table on page 67 ). Generally, we 
observed that the faster the pace of transition, the greater the uncertainty in the exact shape of the resulting energy system in 2030.•
 O
il price is likely to remain the main source of 
climate-related transition uncertainty for our strategy through to 2030, reflecting both the wide range of potential pathways and the contribution to our expected total adjusted EBITDA over this period, that oil-price-linked businesses represent
b. In the 1.5°C family, 
the potential downside suggested by the lowest oil prices is around 27% of group adjusted EBITDA in 2030. However, in a number of the scenarios based on the WBCSD Scenario Catalogue ranges, including those consistent with well-below 2°C and BAU families, oil price could offer  a financial upside relative to our reference 2030 group business outlook.
•
 E
ven with the most extreme low oil price 
environment in any of the scenarios, sustained over the period from 2025-30
c and 
taking into account our ability to optimize our capital within the frames set out in our strategy (last communicated at the 10-11 October 2023 investor update), in our analysis we are able to deliver across the three lenses we use to consider strategic resilience, described above. 
•
 T
he maximum potential scale of downside 
impact on our 2030 expected group adjusted EBITDA (across the 1.5°C, well-below 2°C and BAU scenarios) from our other natural gas businesses was <6%,while from each of our conventional refining, fuels and low carbon activities
 was modelled to be <4%.
•
 O
ur diversified portfolio helps mitigate the 
implications for our strategic resilience of  the exposure of any of one of the individual business areas to the identified risk. It is reasonable to consider each potential outcome in isolation since the outcomes  for different business areas vary across scenarios (see table on page 67 ).
•
 I
n a BAU scenario, we believe our 
transitioning strategy mitigates the risk of what we and others have referred to as a ’delayed and disorderly’ transition, which might follow in the medium to long term. Should the growth of any one of our in-scope transition growth engine areas be challenged by the downside range in the relevant variable, our analysis suggests that the impact of this on group adjusted EBITDA in 2030 would not be sufficient to impact the resilience of our strategy, as described above, in that timeframe. 
a A lthough such scenarios do not and cannot represent all possible futures, we value them as a simplified and schematic way to consider the potential implications of, and uncertainty  
inherent within, a range of possible energy transition pathways to a future bp portfolio mix. 
b
 N
ote that for the purposes of our scenario analysis and resilience test, we have assessed the impact of oil price across both our oil production businesses and those natural gas businesses  
for which commercial outcomes are linked to oil price.
c
 O
ur multi-year (2023-30) oil price resilience test considered sustained low oil prices consistent with the most extreme WBCSD Scenario Catalogue 2025 and 2030 scenarios – for 2025 the  
IEA (World Energy Model Net Zero Energy 2050) price at $52/bbl, and for 2030 the UN PRI (Inevitable Policy Response Required Policy Scenario) at $31.8/bbl (both 2021 $ real, and then  
inflated in line with bp’s other planning assumptions).Climate-related financial disclosures continued

65
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373It is important to note that insights from 
this
 
analysis are necessarily limited by the 
scenarios, methodologies and business assumptions used. The analysis should not be
 
taken as a prediction of the future.
Maintaining strategic resilience 
to
 
the
 
transition
Taking into consideration potential constraints 
associated with factors such as long-term capital investment, contractual commitments and organizational capabilities at any given time, bp’s ability to maintain strategic resilience rests, in part, on the governance used to keep the strategy under review in light of new information and changing circumstances. To enable us to understand and respond to the changing pace of the energy transition, we monitor and assess key indicators and metrics, such as policy development, renewables installed capacity, EV sales and low carbon technology costs. Our strategy and capital allocation, the associated risks, opportunities and their implications for our resilience are all reviewed by the bp leadership team and the board and updated as they consider appropriate.
Resilience to physical risk
As described on page 62 , we have identified a 
number of physical risks which may affect our business and assets, the frequency or severity of which could be affected by climate change. Exposure to physical climate-related risk is highly dependent on geographical location and on factors such as asset design, and we seek to manage these risks accordingly. We consider that our approach to managing these risks, described in Risk Management Recommended Disclosure b) on page 59 , supports our strategic 
resilience to them. 
For the purposes of this Recommended 
Disclosure, we have considered the potential for physical risks to bp-operated assets to increase as a result of climate change (namely, increases in the potential frequency or intensity of extreme weather events) to such an extent as to have the potential to impact the resilience of our strategy.During 2022, we undertook an analysis of potential changes in certain physical conditions, such as air temperature, precipitation, sea level rise and wave heights, for our onshore and offshore major operating sites, based on Shared Socioeconomic Pathway
d (SSP) emission 
scenarios 1-2.6, 2-4.5 and 5-8.5. 
Even in the highest emissions pathway 
(SSP5-8.5) the results of our analysis suggest that, on the basis of the 50th percentile values and compared to the baseline used (1991-2020), changes in the physical parameters considered are generally unlikely to be significant over the medium term. 
There is, however, uncertainty across different 
scenarios and wider variances were observed when looking at the 5th and 95th percentile values. Where the data do suggest greater potential for climate-related changes in physical conditions, we intend to consider whether further work is necessary to understand the potential for those changes to adversely impact our operations. For example, modelled changes in extreme precipitation by 2030 (50th percentile values) are less than 10% across all onshore major operating sites apart from Oman – where we have already undertaken hydrological studies and flood risk assessments that have supported the development of our operations there. 
Our transition risk scenario analysis identified 
impacts on the earnings of our oil-priced businesses as having the most potential to impact the resilience of our strategy in 2030. Therefore, and viewing resilience through the same lenses that we describe above, we have considered the extent to which our oil and gas production business would need to be impacted by evolving physical risk over the same timeframe for the scale of financial impact to be
 
sufficient to jeopardize the resilience of our 
strategy out to 2030. We concluded that a significant proportion of our combined oil and
 
gas portfolio would need to be either 
permanently shut in or temporarily shut down to
 
jeopardize our strategic resilience in this way. Historically, severe weather risks to our operated assets have not occurred at a scale which could reduce earnings so significantly as to jeopardize the resilience of our strategy. As reflected in the latest science from the IPCC, it is in the nature of climate-induced severe weather events that their occurrence, intensity and severity are unpredictable and uncertain. Our own analysis on major operating sites, described above, is consistent with this IPCC view. 
Despite this uncertainty, we have found no 
definitive basis in either the IPCC report or the limited number of detailed studies we have undertaken (see page 62 ), to conclude that 
climate-change-induced increases in the frequency or severity of severe weather events would be likely to result, at any point in time out to 2030, in disruption and shutdowns across our oil and gas portfolio on a scale that would reduce earnings so significantly as to jeopardize the resilience of our strategy.
For the purposes of this Recommended 
Disclosure, the resilience of our strategy was considered separately for the relevant transition and physical risks; accordingly, we did not seek to take account of any interdependencies or cumulative effects between the two types of climate-related risk, and the associated potential financial impact.
d  S SPs have been developed by the climate change research community to describe plausible major global developments that together would lead in the future to different challenges  
for mitigation and adaptation to climate change. The SSPs are based on five narratives describing alternative socioeconomic developments, including sustainable development, regional  
rivalry, inequality, fossil-fuelled development and middle-of-the-road development.

66
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Our approach to testing resilience to transition risk
Most of our analysis focused on our medium-
term time horizon (2030) – far enough ahead to provide a divergent range of scenarios, while not so far ahead that it is unrealistic to attempt to generate credible financial metrics for bp, or an individual business area within bp. For variables considered most significant (see below), we also assessed resilience over the period 2025-30.
Our analysis sought to quantify the potential 
impact of a range of scenarios, including those consistent with 1.5°C, on bp’s currently held (at the time the analysis was completed) internal reference group business outlook to 2030. This outlook is used for internal corporate planning and holds a current deterministic view of our portfolio, activity set, cost and capital frame. The outlook used in our analysis aligned to the strategic direction shared at the 10-11 October 2023 investor update, and the financials lie within the range of financial outcomes set out in that announcement.
a
The steps we took as part of our scenario analysis approach are outlined here at a high level.
1.
 W
hole company assessment:  We defined, 
through quantitative analysis, which 
business areas could have both the financial scale and clear transition exposures to potentially impact bp’s strategic resilience.
a.
 W
e assessed the business areas in our 
portfolio by i) quantitatively evaluating each business area’s ’potential significance’ – i.e. its expected contribution to bp group adjusted EBITDA
 in 2030 and therefore 
the quantum of financial impact that might be put at risk by transition uncertainty (including pathways consistent with 1.5°C); and ii) by identifying, for each, whether there were primary potential value driver(s) that different transition pathways might impact (’transition risk driver(s)’). This was performed to allocate the most appropriate analysis technique to that business (see 1b and 1c).
b.
 T
en business areas (see table on page 67 ), 
representing over 80% of our expected 2030 adjusted EBITDA, were identified as both providing a potentially significant financial contribution and facing primary transition risk drivers, and accordingly were subjected to the driver-based scenario analysis set out in steps 2a-2c below. c.
 T
he remaining business areas were taken 
forward to a simplified scenario analysis, per step 2d below.
2.
 S
cenario analysis:  We tested the financial 
impact of transition on all of bp’s business areas in 2030 through either specific ’driver-based’ scenario modelling (that includes 1.5°C and current policies), or by ’simplified’ conservative scenario analysis, that modelled cases likely to be beyond these ranges. 
a.
 F
or the driver-based scenario analysis, we 
selected the primary transition risk driver(s) for each business area – the variable(s) from the WBCSD Scenario Catalogue representing what we consider to be the primary driver(s) of that business area’s exposure to the energy transition. For each transition risk driver, we extracted the full range of 2030 outcomes within each scenario ’family’. Given the global nature of the transition risks and opportunities we have identified, we used the ’world’ values in the Catalogue except for gas price (see table on page 67 ).
b.
 B
y calibrating the WBCSD Scenario 
Catalogue 2030 scenarios to relevant business metrics underpinning our strategic planning (for example, oil price or EV demand/utilization), we modelled the impact of each variable, across the full range of scenarios and each scenario family, on the 2030 expected earnings (adjusted EBITDA) for the associated business area(s). For example, we applied an earnings rule of thumb deemed appropriate to the period in question to the deviation of oil prices in WBCSD versus our reference case price. This analysis was unmitigated (see ’Other key considerations’).
c.
 T
his enabled us to assess the potential for 
each scenario to materially impact group adjusted EBITDA in 2030 (and by implication associated cash flows), against the reference group business outlook. By modelling the specific business area within the reference group business outlook (described in step 1b above), its exposure to the most extreme range of the respective scenario could be assessed to identify which (if any) variables(s) and scenario(s) could have the potential to impact strategic resilience (as defined below) most materially, and as such, which business areas should be carried forward into a multi-year resilience assessment.d.
 F
or the simplified scenario analysis, we took 
a simpler conservative approach, by evaluating whether a scenario in which each business area’s expected 2030 adjusted EBITDA is assumed to be reduced to zero – an outcome at least as detrimental to that business area’s adjusted EBITDA as could reasonably be expected to result from ranges associated with the trajectory of each of the 1.5°C, 2°C or BAU scenario families – could have the potential to impact strategic resilience (as defined below) materially.
3.
 Mu
lti-year resilience test:  This step tested 
bp’s resilience to the exposure of any sufficiently material business areas to downside scenarios that may have the potential to jeopardize the ability to generate surplus cash flow
 and a strong 
cash cover ratio and gearing level – financial metrics that were treated for the purposes of the analysis as representing financial evidence of delivery of bp’s strategic priorities. From step 2, only the exposure to oil price was assessed as sufficiently material in this sense, and hence carried forward for multi-year resilience analysis. Our multi-year (2025-30) oil price resilience test considered sustained low oil prices consistent with the most extreme WBCSD Scenario Catalogue 2025 and 2030 scenarios – for 2025 the IEA (World Energy Model Net Zero Energy 2050) price at $52/bbl, and for 2030 the UN PRI (Inevitable Policy Response Required Policy Scenario) at $31.8/bbl (both 2021 $ real).
Other key considerations
• F or the purposes of steps 2 and 3, we 
considered the resilience of our strategy to climate-related transition risk through the three lenses described on page 61 . We 
defined the following as proxy indicators for these lenses:–
 G
roup surplus cash flow, to confirm 
whether after funding, among other things, capital spend within our disclosed capital frame (10-11 October 2023 investor update) and the dividend/share assumed in our reference group business outlook, sufficient surplus cash flow remains to maintain or reduce net debt and/or make share buybacks.
–
 H
ealthy cash cover ratio and gearing  
as indicators of the ability to maintain a
 
strong investment grade credit rating.
a A s was the case for the analysis presented in the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2021 , the financials used do not include any reference to the shareholding in Rosneft that bp  
announced its intention to exit from on 27 February 2022.Climate-related financial disclosures continued

67
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373• F or steps 2 and 3, we made the simplifying 
assumption that, aside from the driver 
being modelled, our strategy, operating model, cost basis, volumes, margins, sales proceeds and taxes would remain unchanged out to 2030. We have also not deviated from bp’s reference view of potential future shareholder distributions and uses of surplus cash as a basis for analysis. 
•
 T
here are a range of mitigations or actions 
that we might naturally be expected to take in response to external market, price and demand trends, including cost reductions, portfolio adjustments, capital reallocation or capital reductions within the frames set out in our strategy. 
•
 F
or steps 2 and 3, given we would seek to 
make use of opportunities to maintain our strategic flexibility in the face of the many uncertainties of the energy transition, our methodology retains the optionality in downside scenario modelling to apply some or all of these mitigations.
•
 T
he design of a strategic resilience analysis 
involves numerous methodological choices and assumptions – any one of which could reasonably have been different, leading to different outcomes. We have found value in conducting this analysis; however, we are mindful of the limitations to any such exercise and the highly qualified nature of any conclusions which may be drawn from it. The disclosures provided here should be read in conjunction with the rest of our strategic report, where we discuss how we have developed, and continue to evolve, our approach to strategy. 
•
 A
s outlined above, we utilized our latest 
internal reference group business outlook as the basis against which resilience has been tested, as this is our latest deterministic view against which to model the transition sensitivities to 2030 and aligns to the strategic update provided to investors in October 2023. Alongside disclosed elements such as the capital frame range to 2030, this includes shaping assumptions such as future distribution and net debt management. Through conducting this analysis, we do not intend to imply or commit to a specific forward trajectory of usage of cash, beyond those disclosed in the investor update in October 2023 and previously published strategy updates.  While we cannot disclose, for confidentiality reasons, the detail of the deterministic case, the test assesses whether the resilience indicators in our reference group business outlook are impacted by the transition uncertainties tested. Further, by the nature of the timeframes considered, a variety of uncertainties exist around this deterministic case (including transition risk itself) as indicated by the range of adjusted EBITDA disclosed in the full year and 4Q results update on 6 February 2024. It is not practical, and we have not attempted, to extend the analysis conducted here to any other potential outcomes within the disclosed range of group adjusted EBITDA.
•
 W
here rules of thumb have been applied, to 
convert variance in hydrocarbon price to variance in adjusted EBITDA, these are deemed appropriate to the period in question – i.e. they reflect the respective 2030 (step 2) and 2025-30 (step 3) portfolios and price leverage for this period. Due to the evolution of bp’s portfolio, these rules of thumb may diverge from any short-term rule of thumb that we publish.
WBCSD Scenario Catalogue family ranges for 2030 key transition variables
BAU Below 2°C 1.5°C
Business area TCFD/WBCSD variable Min Max Min Max Min Max
Resilient 
hydrocarbonsOil and natural gas production Oil pricea ($2021/bbl) 62.12 82.00 47.70 76.88 31.80 68.87
Natural gas priceb ($2021/mmbtu) 3.73 5.42 2.91 5.61 1.90 5.88
Refining – refined oil demand Primary energy demand for oil  (% vs 2020)-0.1 15.2 -3.1 11.6 -16.8 -1.0
– bio-jet demand Final demand for liquid biofuels in aviation (EJ/yr)0.21 1.03 0.21 1.64 0.44 1.73
Biogas Biogas demand in road transport  (EJ/yr)0.00 0.18 0.01 0.25 0.00 0.19
Convenience and mobilityEV charging Final energy demand for electricity  in road transport (EJ/yr)2.53 6.49 3.40 8.37 4.09 9.18
Aviation fuel sales Liquid fuel consumption in aviation (EJ/yr)14.95 20.06 14.73 18.84 9.37 14.66
Conventional fuels retail Final energy demand for liquid oil in road transport (EJ/yr)72.17 93.57 65.20 93.87 48.57 78.92
Conventional B2B & supply
Conventional road lubricants
Low carbon 
energyRenewables Renewable capacity additions  (GW vs 2020)3,055 6,181 3,131 7,671 5,438 9,797
Hydrogen production Hydrogen consumption (EJ/yr) 0.20 4.32 0.20 5.28 0.48 10.75
For the other business areas not shown above, we applied the generic scenario analysis methodology described in point 2d on page 66 , thereby 
ensuring coverage of all of bp’s business areas.
a O il price sensitivities have been applied to the oil and gas production portfolio that is linked to oil marker prices – as such it not only reflects oil production exposure, but also a proportion  
of bp’s natural gas production that is contracted off oil marker prices.
b
 G
as prices shown reflect Henry Hub price ranges. Where available in the TCFD/WBCSD data sets Asian and UK gas price sensitivities have also been selected and compared to the Henry  
Hub sensitivity percentages with the maximum deviation selected and applied to the respective Asian and NBP rules of thumb for these parts of the gas portfolio, in order to provide the  
most conservative uncertainty range.

68
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023a T hese are our KPIs for the purposes of our disclosures pursuant to the UK CFD Regulations and Section 414CB (2A) (h) of the Companies Act 2006.
b 
 I
n determining the Scope 3 emissions that are ’appropriate’ to be disclosed for the purposes of this Recommended Disclosure, we have considered this term in the context of the  
recommendation to disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. The relevant target that we use in respect of Scope 3  emissions is our aim 2, which is aligned to category 11 of Scope 3.Metrics and Targets
TCFD Recommendation:
Disclose the metrics and targets  
used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.We present the principal group-wide metrics and targets used to assess and manage climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management process below, with metrics and targets mapped to the most relevant of TCFD’s cross-industry, climate-related metric categories (such as ’transition risks’). 
TCFD recommended disclosures – metrics and associated targets/goals
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess material climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Transition risks
•
 N
ote 5 to Financial statements: Segmental analysis. Segment revenue (in table), pages 193-197 . 
•
 E
stimated net proved reserves and production (net of royalties), page 38 . 
•
 N
ote 4 to Financial statements: Disposals and impairments, pages 190-192 . 
•
 N
ote 8 to Financial statements: Impairment losses (in table), page 198 . 
•
 O
il and natural gas prices used for value-in-use impairment testing and recoverability of asset carrying 
values, pages 178  and 280 .Our strategic 2025 targets and 2030 aims – resilient 
hydrocarbons, page 13 .
Physical risks
•
 N
umber of major operating sites in regions with medium to extremely high water stress, page 60 .
•
 Fr
eshwater withdrawals and consumption at major operating sites in regions with high or extremely high 
water stress, page 54 .Aim 17 (water positive): progress update, page 54 .
Climate-related opportunities
•
 O
ur strategic metrics, page 13 (in table, relevant metrics with ).
•
 N
ote 5 to Financial statements: Segmental analysis. Segment revenue (in table), pages 193-197 .
•
 A
djusted EBITDA  from transition growth engines, page 12 . 
•
 R
enewables – installed capacity, developed to FID and pipeline, page 39 . Our strategic 2025 targets and 2030 aims – convenience 
and mobility, and low carbon energy, page 13 .
Capital deployment
•
 D
isciplined investment allocation: 2022-25 guidance, capital allocation and internal rate of return (IRR), 
page 28 .
•
 P
rice assumptions, key investment appraisal assumptions, page 30  (in table, indicated with ).
•
 A
mount invested in transition growth engines (aim 5), page 50 .
•
 A
dditional information – capital expenditure by segment, page 336 .
•
 N
ote 7 to Financial statements: expenditure on research and development (in table), page 197 .
•
 N
ote 8 to Financial statements: exploration and evaluation costs (in table), page 198 . Aim 5 (more $ into the transition): progress 
update,  page  
50.
Internal carbon prices
•
 I
nternal carbon price, page 30 .
Remuneration•
 D
irectors’ remuneration report metrics: Sustainable emissions reductions, pages 114-115 . Aim 7 (incentivizing employees): progress update, page 50 .
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related
 
risks
GHG emissions
• K ey performance indicators (relevant KPIs shown with ), page 24 .a
• S cope 1 and 2, in SECR table page 51 .
•
 R
atio of Scope 1 and 2 emissions: gross production, in SECR table page 51 .
•
 S
cope 3 (category 11, to which our aim 2 relates) performance, page 49 .b
• T CFD: risks as described in Strategy A, page 60 .
•
 R
isk factors, page 77 .
A further breakdown of our GHG and energy data by business group is available in our ESG datasheet  at bp.com/ESG .Aim 1 (net zero operations): progress update, page 48 .
Aim 2 (net zero production): progress update, page 49 .
Aim 3 (net zero sales): progress update, page 49 .
Aim 4 (reducing methane): progress update, page 49 .Climate-related financial disclosures continued
The metrics and targets themselves are 
disclosed at the most appropriate locations in this strategic report. 

69
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Our approach to sustainability
Our approach to sustainability is targeted, systematic and collaborative – built on strong foundations 
that guide the way we work and support our net zero, people and planet aims.Sustainability continued
Safety comes first
At bp, safety comes first. We want to improve 
our safety performance and work towards the goal we set in 2021 to eliminate fatalities, life-changing injuries and tier 1 process safety events. 
We deeply regret the fatalities and life-changing 
injuries that occurred at bp in 2023. In May a contractor in our US Permian operations was fatally injured when operating a forklift, and in June a contractor in the same region suffered a
 
life-changing injury while performing manual 
activity. At our TravelCenters of America business, one employee was struck by a vehicle and fatally injured and another employee was killed in a workplace violence incident
a.
We have offered our condolences and support to the families and employees affected. We are taking action to learn from these incidents to help drive further improvements in safety.
Keeping people safe
We monitor and report on key workforce personal safety metrics in line with industry standards. We include both employees and contractors in our data.
In 2023 our recordable injury frequency (RIF) 
increased by 47% compared to 2022. We attribute an increase in injuries in part to the onboarding of retail operations we acquired such as Thorntons . Plans are in place to help 
prevent injuries in future. 
In 2023 we made further improvements to 
mitigate safety risks in refining and production by strengthening our safety barriers and the guidance in our Operating Management System (OMS).
RIF key performance indicator, page 24Driving safety
Driving is one of the biggest personal safety risks we face at bp. In 2023 seven severe vehicle accidents occurred, a decrease from 10 in 2022. The number of kilometres driven fell by 4.2% over the same period.
2023 2022 2021
Severe vehicle 
accident rate 0.023 0.037 0.034
Our Operating Management System
Our OMS provides a single group-wide 
framework for delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations. Our OMS sets out the way in which our businesses around the world are expected to understand and manage their environmental and social impacts, including requirements on engaging with stakeholders who may be affected by our activities.
We review and amend these requirements  
from time to time to reflect our priorities. Any variations in the application of our OMS, in order to meet local regulations or circumstances, are subject to a governance process. Recently acquired operations need to transition to our OMS.
In 2023 we updated our OMS with a view to 
making it simpler and clearer, to support more rigorous application. The updates included revised requirements in our environmental  and social practices that cover investment decisions, projects and operations. These updated practices set out requirements to identify, prevent and mitigate carbon, environmental and social impacts and risk  and to identify related opportunities.
Our OMS requires each of bp’s operating 
businesses and functions to create and maintain its own OMS handbook, describing how it will carry out its local operating activities. 
We use a ’three lines of defence’ model to test 
the effective management of all types of risk, including safety. The nature and extent of first, second and third lines of defence activities are based on the type and level of risk.Preventing incidents
We carefully plan our operations with the aim  of identifying potential hazards and having rigorous operating and maintenance practices applied by capable people to manage risks at every stage. We design our new facilities in line with process safety, good design and engineering principles. We track our safety performance using industry-aligned metrics such as those found in the American Petroleum Institute recommended practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers recommended practice 456.
Our combined reported tier 1 and tier 2 process 
safety events
 (PSEs) have generally decreased 
over the last 11 years, apart from in 2019. This downward trend continued in 2023, with 11 fewer (22%) than in 2022.
We investigate serious or complex incidents, 
which may include near misses, and we also  use leading indicators, such as inspections  and equipment tests, to monitor the strength  of controls to prevent incidents.
We have also made progress in preventing and 
reducing spills. In 2023 there were 100 oil spills compared with 108 in 2022. Although portfolio changes may affect the overall baseline of our operations, our goal is still the elimination of tier 1 PSEs.
2023 2022 2021
Tier 1 and tier 2 
process safety events
39 50 62
Oil spills – number 100 108 121
Oil spills – contained 52 57 73
a I n 2023 bp acquired the US-based TravelCenters of America business. Shortly after the acquisition was completed, two separate incidents occurred resulting in fatalities. At the time of publication, 
TravelCenters of America safety reporting processes were still being integrated into bp’s reporting processes and as such, these fatalities are not included in reported fatality data for 2023.

70
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Emergency preparedness
The scale and extent of bp’s operations mean 
we must be prepared to respond to a range of possible disruptions and emergency events. We maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans and work to build day-to-day response capabilities to support local management of incidents. We test our plans and preparedness through exercises that
 
simulate real-life scenarios. In 2023 we 
conducted a number of exercises in countries including Egypt and Spain.
Security
We monitor for hostile actions that could harm our people or disrupt our operations. These actions might be connected to political or social unrest, terrorism, armed conflict or criminal activity. We take these potential threats seriously and assess them continuously. Our 24-hour response information centre in the UK uses state-of-the-art technology to monitor evolving high-risk situations in real time. It helps us to assess the safety of our people and provide them with practical advice if there is an emergency.
Cyber security
The severity, sophistication and scale of cyber attacks continues to evolve. Increasing digitization and reliance on IT systems and cloud platforms makes managing cyber risk an
 
even greater priority for many industries, 
including our own. Direct or collateral impact can come from a variety of cyber threat actors, including nation states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and insiders. As in previous years, we have experienced threats to the security of our digital systems and our barriers have worked well to mitigate and contain them to minimize any impact on our business.
We have a range of measures to manage this 
risk, including the use of cyber security policies and procedures, security protection tools, threat monitoring and event detection capabilities, and incident response plans. We conduct exercises to test our response to, and recovery from, cyber attacks. We collaborate closely with governments, law enforcement and industry peers to understand and respond to threats.
To encourage vigilance among our employees, 
our extensive cyber security training courses and awareness programme provide regular education on a wide range of topics such as phishing and the correct classification and handling of our information. We also use a cyber barometer tool to empower individual risk mitigation.
How we manage risk, page  73 
Additional disclosures – cyber security, page 360  Working with contractors
Through documents that help bridge between our policies and those of our contractors, we define the way our safety management system co-exists with systems used by our contractors to manage risk on a site. We conduct risk-based quality, technical, health, safety and security audits before awarding contracts. Once contractors start work, we continue to monitor their safety performance. Our OMS includes requirements and practices for working with contractors. Our standard model contracts include health, safety and security requirements. We expect and encourage our contractors and their employees to act in a way that is consistent with our code of conduct and take appropriate action if those expectations, or
 
their contractual obligations are not met.
Our partners in joint arrangements
We monitor performance and how risk is managed in our joint arrangements
, 
whether we are the operator or not. In joint arrangements where we are the operator, 
Our people
Workforce by gender
Male Female Female %
As at 31 December 2023 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Board directors 6 6 6 5 50 45
Leadership team 4 5 7 6 64 55
Group leaders 193 187 102 91 34 33
Subsidiary directors 384 488 174 212 31 30
All employeesa51,800 41,000 35,900 26,500 41 39
Number of employees
As at 31 December 2023 2023 2022 2021
Gas & low carbon energy 4,800 4,200 4,000
Oil production & operations 8,800 8,600 8,800
Customers & products 63,400b44,700 43,600
Other businesses & corporate 10,800 10,100 9,500
Total 87,800 67,600 65,900
a S ome employees have not disclosed gender, therefore are not included in this total.
b 
 T
his figure reflects new acquisitions including TravelCenters of America.
Our culture
We want to build a culture in which all our 
employees can thrive. Our culture frame ‘Who we are’ sets out the culture we want to build at bp. 
Our culture is reinforced by various factors 
including our code of conduct, our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion, compliance with local legislation and regulations, speak-up channels and monitoring employee sentiment. Read more about the board’s role in overseeing bp’s culture on page 97 . Developing our people
Our people are crucial to delivering our purpose and strategy. We aim to recruit talented people from diverse backgrounds, and we invest in training, development and competitive rewards for them. We focus our attraction, recruitment, development and retention activities to provide the support and skills they need to thrive and help bp succeed. 
In 2023 we strengthened our development offer, 
evolving it to meet the demands of the energy transition. We launched several development initiatives, including new learning pathways on Sustainability continued
our OMS, code of conduct and other policies apply. We aim to report on aspects of our business where we are the operator – as we directly manage the performance of these operations. Where we are not the operator, our OMS is available as a reference point for bp businesses when engaging with other operators and co-venturers. We have a group framework to assess and manage bp’s exposure related to safety, operational and bribery and corruption risk from our participation in these types of arrangements.
Where appropriate, we may seek to influence 
how risk is managed in arrangements where we are not the operator.
The people and governance committee reviews 
workforce policies and practices and their alignment with bp’s strategy, purpose, beliefs and culture, and conducts workforce engagement measures.
People and governance committee report, page 94

71
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373our global learning platform grow@bp, to help 
employees increase their knowledge of our sustainability aims, the energy transition and our transition growth engines.
In 2023 bp employees collectively completed 
more than 1.3 million hours of formal learning (2022 1.1 million hours). This learning is available to all employees and covers safety, technical, leadership, digital and sustainability skills. Our development offer also includes our mandatory curriculum focused on compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as conformance with bp’s internal standards.
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Our aim 14 is greater diversity, equity and inclusion for our workforce and our customers, and to increase supplier diversity spend by 2025 to $650 million for US-related spend
a. We want 
our workforce and customers to experience greater equity – fair treatment according to everyone’s different needs and situations. We aim to do this by improving workforce diversity and workplace inclusion, making customer experiences more inclusive, and increasing our annual expenditure with certified diverse suppliers, including female and under-represented or minority groups, to $650 million for US-related spend by 2025.
We report information and disclose against 
targets on the representation of women and ethnic minorities on our board and executive management. Read more on page 83 .
Gender equality
We are working to further improve the gender balance across our workforce. In December 2023 seven of the 11 positions in our leadership team were held by women. Our ambition is to reach gender parity for the top levels of leadership (top 120 roles) by 2025 and parity for all executive-level employees (group leaders) by 2030. We also have an ambition of 40% female representation for the next layer of senior leadership (senior-level leaders) by 2030. In 2023 34% of group leader roles were filled by women (2022 33%).
bp Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Report, bp.com/ukgenderpaygap
Ethnic diversity
We have made progress on our ambition to increase minority representation in the UK and US. 
In 2023 we continued our Leadership Inclusion 
for Talent (LIfT) programme – a 12-month development experience – to support the progression of under-represented minority talent in the US and UK into senior leadership roles.We also delivered our mandatory Race4Equity racial equity and inclusion training programme to almost 100% of our most senior leaders and 84% of employees at other levels in the US and UK.
In 2023 33% of our group leaders came from 
countries other than the UK and the US (2022 33%).
Read more in our DE&I report at  bp.com/diversity
Composition of the board, page 83 
Diversity reporting in line with the Parker 
Review, page 96
Diversity reporting in line with the Listing 
Rules, page 133
Inclusion
To promote an inclusive culture, we provide leadership training and support employee-run advocacy groups in areas such as gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability.
As well as bringing employees together, these 
groups support our recruitment programmes and provide feedback on the potential impact of
 
policy changes. Each group is sponsored by 
a
 
member of the bp leadership team.
We aim to provide equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and reward for all employees – regardless of ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status, disability or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws.
We have embedded ’Hiring Inclusively’, a set 
of globally consistent recruiting principles to help enable an inclusive, equitable approach to hiring. It supports recruiters to review internal and external market data for skills availability by gender and by other historically under-represented groups in some geographies.
Supporting disabled employees
We continue to take steps to help improve the experience of the workplace for employees with disabilities, with support from employee-led disability, neurodiversity, and mental wellbeing business resource groups (BRGs) offering:
•
 I
nclusive recruitment training, disability and 
neurodiversity awareness sessions, as well 
as specific internships and apprenticeships.
•
 A
ccess to assistive technology support 
(such as voice recognition software and screen readers) for all employees.
•
 I
mproved accessibility in communications, 
ensuring bp’s brand visual standards are more accessible.  If existing employees become disabled, our policy is to engage and use reasonable accommodations or adjustments to enable continued employment.
We have partnerships to help source talent, 
assist with research and training and support students with disabilities to build the skills they need to access the workplace. Our partners include the National Organization on Disability in the US, and the Business Disability Forum in the UK. bp is also part of the Valuable 500 – a global business collective made up of 500 CEOs and their companies, to drive lasting change for people around the world living with a disability.
Employee engagement
Our managers hold team and one-to-one meetings with their team members, complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of Europe.
We regularly communicate with employees 
on factors that affect bp’s performance, and seek to maintain constructive relationships with labour unions formally representing our employees.
We monitor employee sentiment through our 
’Pulse annual’ employee survey, which is sent to all eligible employees, and through our ’Pulse live’ survey, which is sent to a representative sample of employees weekly. Our overall engagement metric, employee engagement, increased to 73% (2022 70%), while pride in working for bp increased to a record 80% (2022 78%).
We will continue to develop engagement plans 
based on feedback from the annual and weekly surveys to help us deliver on safety, and meet our strategic objectives and our 2025 targets, focusing on four areas to drive further progress – leadership, transforming, psychological safety and inclusion.
Our employee engagement key performance indicator, page 27 
How the board engaged with the  
workforce, page 92
Share ownership
We encourage employee share ownership and have a number of employee share plans in place. For example, we operate a ShareMatch plan, matching bp shares purchased by our employees. We also make annual share awards as part of our total reward package all for senior and mid-level employees globally, and a portion of our more junior professional grade employees.
Directors’ remuneration report, page 105
 
 
a I n 2023 we reset our supplier diversity target from $1 billion by 2025.

72
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Mental health and wellbeing
We include an employee wellbeing index in our 
‘Pulse annual’ employee survey and weekly ‘Pulse live’ surveys. Results from 2023 showed that employee wellbeing increased by four points to 72% (2022 68%).
We took further action to create workplaces 
where people can talk openly about mental health and get help if they need it. We updated our mental health training programmes, which are designed to build employees’ awareness and their ability to care for themselves and others.
Ethics and compliance
Our code of conduct
Our code sets standards and expectations for how we do the right thing and empowers our employees to speak up without fear of retaliation.
It puts safety first, and together with our Safety 
Leadership Principles and Operating Management System (OMS), helps us make safe and ethical decisions, act responsibly, comply with applicable laws and deliver on our
 
sustainability frame.
Our code applies to all bp employees, officers and board members. Our regular mandatory training and communications help employees understand how to apply our code and how to raise questions or concerns.
All bp employees are required to confirm 
annually that they have read and understand our
 
code and complied with its principles. We 
expect and encourage all our contractors and their employees to act in ways that are consistent with it.
Any concerns or enquiries can be raised through 
multiple speak-up channels. These include line managers, senior leaders, and contacts in our people & culture, ethics & compliance or legal teams. We also have a confidential global helpline, OpenTalk. It is available in 75 languages and can be accessed all day, every day on the telephone or internet, by employees, the wider workforce, communities, business partners and other stakeholders. In most locations, anyone has the right to contact OpenTalk anonymously except where this is prohibited by law.
Any instances where we believe individuals have 
fallen short of our expectations, set out in our beliefs, ‘Who we are’ and our code of conduct, are taken very seriously and, where appropriate, a formal investigation is carried out.We may take action in response to reported concerns, for example through training and monitoring trends in our ‘Pulse annual’ employee survey data to help proactively mitigate issues around misconduct. We follow a disciplinary process and will issue sanctions where appropriate, which may include dismissal. 
We received more than 2,250 concerns or 
enquiries through these channels in 2023 (2022 1,350). In 2023 around 66 separations resulted from non-conformance with our code or unethical behaviour
a.
As in 2022 the most frequently raised concerns related to bullying, harassment and discrimination, with these accounting for around half of all concerns. The second most common issue was alleged fraud.
bp.com/codeofconduct
Anti-bribery and corruption
We operate in parts of the world where bribery and corruption present a high risk. We have a responsibility to our employees, our shareholders and the countries and communities in which we do business to be ethical and lawful in all our work.
Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits 
engaging in bribery or corruption in any form. Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures include measures and guidance to assess risks, understand relevant laws and report concerns. They apply to all bp-operated businesses.
We provide appropriate training including for 
those employees in locations or roles assessed to be at a higher risk of bribery and corruption. In 2023 around 10,500 employees completed anti-bribery and corruption training as part of our ethics and compliance risk-based learning. This is higher than the 7,500 employees trained in 2022, due to the rolling time schedule we use to assign training. 
We also conduct anti-bribery compliance audits 
on selected suppliers to assess their conformance with our anti-bribery and corruption contractual requirements. We take corrective action with suppliers and business partners who fail to meet our expectations, which may include terminating contracts. In 2023 we issued 31 ABC supplier audit reports.(2022 37).Political donations and activity
We prohibit the use of bp funds or resources to
 
support any political candidate or party. 
We
 
recognize the rights of our employees to 
participate in the political process and these rights are governed by the applicable laws in the countries where we operate. Our stance on political activity is set out in the bp code of conduct.
In the US we provide administrative support 
for
 
the bp employee political action committee 
(PAC) – a non-partisan, employee-led committee that encourages voluntary employee participation in the political process. All bp employee PAC contributions are weighed against the PAC’s criteria for candidate support and reviewed for compliance with federal and state law before funds are passed to the recipients requested by our employees, and are publicly reported in accordance with US election laws. Donations to political candidates made by the PAC are from employee contributions and not bp funds.
Tax transparency
Our code of conduct informs the responsible approach we take to managing taxes. We have adopted the B Team responsible tax principles and we engage in open and constructive dialogue with governments and tax authorities.
We comply with the tax legislation of the 
countries in which we operate and we do not tolerate the facilitation of tax evasion by people who act for or on behalf of bp.
We are committed to transparency around our 
tax principles and the taxes we pay. We paid $11.9 billion in corporate income and production taxes to governments in 2023 (2022 $12.5 billion).
bp Tax Report, bp.com/taxSustainability continued
a T his total excludes exits of contractors, suppliers, vendors and employees at our retail and heliport sites.

Leadership
team and
committeesThe
boardOur ri sk management acti vities
Oversight and governance
Set pol icy and monitor principal risks
Day-to-day risk man agement
Identify , manag e and r epor t risksBusin esses,
integrators 
and e nablers
Facilities, assets
and operationsBusiness and st rategic risk man agement
Plan, manage performance and assure
73
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373bp’s system of internal control is a holistic 
set of internal controls that includes policies, processes, management systems, organizational structures, culture and standards of conduct employed to manage bp’s business and associated risks.
bp’s risk management system
bp’s risk management system and risk management policy are designed to provide a consistent and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the group’s business activities and operations to management and to the board. The system seeks to avoid incidents and enhance business outcomes by allowing us to:
•
Un
derstand the risk environment, identify
the specific risks and assess the potential 
exposure for bp.
•De
termine how best to deal with these 
risks  t
o manage overall potential exposure.
•Ma
nage the identified risks in 
appropriate ways.
•Mo
nitor and seek assurance over the 
effectiveness of the management of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
•
Re
port up the management chain and to the 
board on a periodic basis on how principal risks are being managed, monitored and assured, with any identified enhancements that are being made.How we manage riskHow we manage risk and risk factors
bp manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and uncertainties we have identified that 
can impact our ability to deliver our strategy. These are described in Risk factors on page 77 .
Risk oversight and governance
Our key risk oversight and governance 
committees include:
Board and committees
•bp board.
•Au
dit committee.
•Sa
fety and sustainability committee.
•Re
muneration committee.
•Peo
ple and governance committee.
Leadership team and committees
•Leadership team meeting – for oversight a
nd for strategic and commercial risks.
•Gr
oup operations risk committee – 
for health, safety, security, environment and operations integrity risks.
•
Gr
oup financial risk committee – for 
finance, treasury, trading and cyber risks.
•Gr
oup disclosure committee – 
for financial reporting risks.
•Pe
ople and culture committee – 
for employee risks.
•Gr
oup ethics and compliance committee 
– for legal and regulatory compliance and ethics risks.
•
Gr
oup sustainability committee – 
for non-operational sustainability risks.
•Re
source commitment meeting – 
for investment decision risks.
•bp q
uarterly internal audit meeting – 
for assurance on the oversight of bp’s principal risks.
bp governance framework, page 8 8, 
board a ctivities, page 9 0, committee 
reports , pages 9 4-107 a nd risk 
management and internal control, 
page 134
Acquired businesses
Integration plans are developed to transition 
acquired businesses into bp’s system of internal control and risk management framework, over an appropriate timeframe.

74
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Day-to-day risk management
Management and employees at our facilities, 
assets, and within our businesses, integrators and enablers seek to identify and manage risk, promoting safe, compliant and reliable operations. bp requirements, which take into account applicable laws and regulations, underpin the practical plans developed to help reduce risk and deliver safe, compliant and reliable operations as well as greater efficiency and sustainable financial results.
Business and strategic risk management
Our businesses, integrators and enablers integrate risk management into key business processes such as strategy, planning, performance management, resource and capital allocation and project appraisal. They do this by using a standard framework for collating risk data, assessing risk management activities, making further improvements and in connection with planning new activities.
Oversight and governance
Throughout 2023, management, the leadership team, the board and relevant committees provided oversight of how principal risks to bp were identified, assessed and managed. They supported appropriate governance of risk management including having relevant policies in place to help manage risks.
Such oversight may include internal audit 
reports, group risk reports and reviews of the outcomes of business processes including strategy, planning and resource and capital allocation. bp’s group risk team analyses the group’s risk profile and maintains the group’s risk management system. bp’s internal audit team provides independent assurance to the chief executive and board as to whether the group’s system of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are significant to bp.
Risk management processes
We aim for a consistent basis of measuring risk to:
•
 E
stablish a common understanding of risks 
on a like-for-like basis, taking into account 
potential impact and likelihood.
•
 R
eport risks and their management to 
the
 
appropriate levels of the organization.
•
 I
nform prioritization of specific risk 
management activities and resource allocation.bp’s risk management policy sets out requirements for the group to follow. These requirements support the consideration of three risk types:
•
 S
trategic and commercial.
•
 S
afety and operational.
•
 C
ompliance and control.
Risk identification – businesses, integrators 
and enablers identify risks across the risk types.
 
Risks are identified on an ongoing 
basis
 
– this can be done using a range of 
approaches including workshops, subject-matter expertise, hazard identification processes and engineering requirements.
Risk assessment  – identified risks are 
assessed for potential impact and likelihood 
across a number of criteria, including health and
 
safety, environmental, financial and 
non-financial (includes reputation and regulatory impact levels).
This aims to provide a consistent basis for the 
evaluation of potential impact and likelihood, facilitating a comparison across different risks.
Risk management and monitoring – risk 
management activities are prioritized where improvements are needed based on a number of factors, including the risk assessment, strength of existing risk management measures, strategy and plans and legal and regulatory requirements.
Risk management measures, including 
mitigations, are identified for each risk and monitored to the extent considered appropriate. To support leadership oversight of decisions relating to risk management, the appropriate organizational level (EVP, SVP, VP) are notified of risks and asked to endorse risk management measures, depending on the assessed potential impact and likelihood.
As part of bp’s annual planning process, the 
leadership team and the board review the group’s principal risks and uncertainties. These may be updated during the year in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
There can be no certainty that our risk 
management activities will mitigate or prevent these, or other risks, from occurring. Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties faced are set out in Risk factors on page 77 .Our risk profile
The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many of our risks being enduring in nature. However, risks can develop and evolve over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary in response to internal and external events. These may include emerging risks which are considered through existing processes, including emerging risk communications to the board, bp’s risk management system, the bp Energy Outlook , 
bp’s technology-related news and insights publications, and ongoing emerging technology scanning and group strategic reviews.
We describe above how risks are managed. 
The following section provides examples of the particular risk management activities for each of bp’s principal risks.
Strategic and commercial risks
Prices and markets
Our financial performance is impacted by fluctuating prices of oil, gas and refined products, technological change, exchange rate fluctuations, and the general macroeconomic outlook.
Our strategy is designed to accommodate a 
range of scenarios and be resilient to the volatility in the energy markets. This is supported through a diversified portfolio, a strong balance sheet and
 
operating within a resilient and disciplined 
financial frame. We test our investment and project development costs against a range of pricing and exchange assumptions.
Accessing and progressing hydrocarbon 
resources and low carbon opportunities
Inability to access and progress hydrocarbon 
resources and low carbon opportunities could adversely affect delivery of our strategy.
For hydrocarbon resources our subsurface 
team is accountable for the delivery of high-value, carbon-efficient resources to deliver predictable and reliable investments today, as
 
well as the long-term renewal of our 
hydrocarbon resources. Additionally, the subsurface team partners with innovation & engineering to prioritize technology development needs for the future. Our gas & low carbon energy business is accountable for the delivery of many of our low carbon opportunities through both organic and inorganic growth. This includes the development of our offshore wind, solar, onshore wind, hydrogen and carbon capture, use and storage businesses.How we manage risk and risk factors continued

75
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Major project delivery
Failure to invest in the best opportunities or 
deliver major projects  successfully could 
adversely affect our financial performance.
We seek to manage this risk through our 
projects organization which exists to frame, build and execute projects across bp. The organization contains capability which includes the centre of expertise for appraisal and optimization, expertise to manage the design and build of projects and programmes, and collaboration with our businesses and enablers to ensure project objectives are met. The projects team delivers using its major projects common process which is systematically reviewed and continuously improved.
Geopolitical
The diverse locations of our business activities and operations around the world expose us to a
 
wide range of political developments and 
consequent changes to the economic and operating environment. Geopolitical risk is inherent to many regions in which we operate, and heightened political or social tensions or changes in key relationships could adversely affect the group.
We seek to manage this risk at multiple 
levels, through:
•
 I
dentifying macro-level geopolitical trends 
in
 
the geopolitical advisory council.
•
 P
roviding a clear focal point for political risk 
management in our regions, corporates & 
solutions business.
•
 M
onitoring how geopolitical trends create 
risk at the country level through changes to our baseline threat assessments.
More broadly, we manage the risk on a day-to-day basis through development and maintenance of relationships with governments and stakeholders, and by being trusted partners in each country and region. In addition, we closely monitor events and implement risk mitigation plans where deemed appropriate.
Financial liquidity
External market conditions can impact our financial performance. Supply and demand and the prices achieved for our products can be affected by a wide range of factors including political developments, interest rates, consumer preferences for low carbon energy, global economic conditions, access to capital markets and the influence of OPEC+.We seek to manage this risk through bp’s diversified portfolio, our financial framework, liquidity stress testing, maintaining a significant cash buffer, regular reviews of market conditions and our planning and investment processes.
Energy markets, page 8  
Liquidity and capital resources, page 340   
Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, exposure, page 77
Joint arrangements and contractors
Varying levels of control over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners including non-operated joint ventures (NOJVs), contractors and sub-contractors could result in
 
legal liability and reputational damage. 
bp’s exposure in NOJVs is primarily managed by the NOJV-facing business team in the business or entity where ownership of bp’s interest in the NOJV sits. 
Support, verification and assurance is provided 
by the NOJV solutions team, safety and operational risk assurance, ethics & compliance functional assurance and group internal audit to
 
drive a focused, deliberate and systematic 
approach to the set-up and management of bp’s
 
interests and exposure in NOJVs.
Our relationships with contractors are managed through the bp procurement processes with appropriate requirements incorporated into contractual arrangements.
Cyber security
Both targeted and indiscriminate threats to the security of our digital infrastructure and those of third parties continue to evolve rapidly and are increasingly prevalent across industries worldwide. 
We seek to manage this risk through a range of 
measures, which include cyber security standards, security protection tools, ongoing detection and monitoring of threats and testing of cyber response and recovery procedures. We collaborate with governments, law enforcement agencies and industry peers to understand and respond to new and emerging cyber threats.
We build awareness with our employees, share 
information on incidents with leadership for continuous learning and conduct regular exercises, including with the leadership team, to test response and recovery procedures. For further detail on cyber security disclosures see page 360 .Climate change and the transition 
to
 
a
 
lower carbon economy
Developments in policy, law, regulation, 
technology and markets, including societal and
 
investor sentiment, related to the issue of 
climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy could increase costs, reduce revenues, constrain our operations and affect our business plans and financial performance.
Risks associated with climate change and the 
transition to a lower carbon economy impact many elements of our strategy and, as such, these risks are managed through key business processes including setting the bp strategy and annual plan, capital allocation and investment decisions. The outputs of these key business processes are reviewed in line with the cadence of these activities. See page 59  for 
more information on how transition risks are managed.
Competition
Inability to remain efficient, maintain a high-quality portfolio of assets and innovate could negatively impact delivery of our strategy in a highly competitive market.
We seek to manage this risk through our 
strategy, sustainability and ventures team by providing external insights on the economic, energy, market and competitive environment. Our strategy, sustainability and portfolio management teams use these insights to help define a resilient strategy for bp, including decisions related to portfolio, business development and resource allocation. The ventures team provides commercial innovation capacity that allows us to build new businesses.
Talent and capability
Inability to attract, develop and retain people with necessary skills and capabilities could negatively impact delivery of our strategy.
Our people and culture team oversees all hiring 
activity for bp globally, both professional hiring and early careers. They help to ensure that the right talent and people capability is in place, using local market analysis, people analytics and insights to underpin our strategic workforce planning. Talent leadership focuses on translating bp’s diversity, equity and inclusion ambitions and global framework for action  into a robust and diverse talent pipeline. See page 71  for more information.

76
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Crisis management and 
business  
continuity
Failure to address an incident effectively could 
potentially disrupt our business or exacerbate the legal, financial or operational impacts of the crisis event.
Incidents that could potentially disrupt our 
business are addressed using emergency response and business continuity plans which are mandated through company-wide policies. We use internationally recognized incident command structures and for significant events business support teams and executive support teams are established to provide oversight and management. In addition, we provide a trained cadre of crisis professionals and niche expertise for deployment across the company through our mutual response team.
Insurance
Our insurance strategy could expose the group to material uninsured losses.
Our insurance team is accountable for aligning 
our insurance approach with bp’s strategy and engaging with the businesses, integrators and enablers to determine the appropriate level of insurance. We retain in-house expertise and partner with insurance industry leaders. Our captive insurance companies are regulated within the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Safety and operational risks
Process safety, personal safety and 
environmental risks
Exposure to a wide range of health, safety and 
environmental risks could cause harm to people, the environment and our assets and result in regulatory action, legal liability, business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Our Operating Management System (OMS)
 
helps us manage these risks and drive 
performance improvements. It sets out the standards and requirements which govern key risk management activities such as inspection, maintenance, testing, business continuity and crisis response planning and competency development. In addition, we conduct our drilling activity through a wells organization in order to promote a consistent approach for designing, constructing and managing wells.Drilling and production
Challenging operational environments and other
 
uncertainties could impact drilling and 
production activities.
Our production and operations business group 
brings together all our hydrocarbon operations and our distinctive capabilities in one place to safely deliver competitive returns. The enablers, in particular wells and production, are accountable for safety, risk, quality and operational delivery. They execute capital and operational activity and manage associated expenditure.
Security
Hostile acts such as terrorism, activism, insider acts or piracy could harm our people and disrupt our operations. We monitor for emerging threats and vulnerabilities to manage our physical and information security.
Our intelligence, security and crisis 
management teams provide strategic and operational risk management to our businesses through a network of regional security managers who provide front-line risk management as well as conduct assurance activities through a team independent of the business.
We continue to monitor threats globally and 
maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans.
Product quality
Supplying customers with off-specification products could damage our reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, and impact our financial performance.
bp’s product quality policy is aligned with our 
OMS and sets requirements for our business to meet specifications and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Compliance and control risks
Ethical misconduct and legal or 
regulatory non-compliance
Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable 
laws or regulations could damage our reputation, result in litigation, regulatory action and penalties, adversely affect results and shareholder value, and potentially affect our
 
licence to operate.Our code of conduct, the foundation of who we
 
are, is applicable to all employees and 
central to managing this risk. Additionally, we have various group requirements and training covering areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, competition/anti-trust law, data privacy and international trade regulations. We
 
offer an independent 
confidential helpline, OpenTalk, for employees, contractors and other third parties with the option to raise concerns anonymously.
Regulation
Changes in the law and regulation could increase costs, constrain our operations and
 
affect our strategy, business plans and 
financial performance.
Our businesses, integrators and enablers all 
seek to identify, assess and manage legal and regulatory risks relevant to bp’s operations, strategy, business plans and financial performance. To support this work, we seek to
 
develop co-operative relationships with 
governmental authorities in line with our code of
 
conduct, to allow appropriate focus on areas 
of potential risk or uncertainty, while also protecting bp’s interests within the law. 
Trading non-compliance
In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our trading activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our
 
systems, risk management methodology, 
internal control processes or employee conduct.
We have specific operating standards and 
control processes to manage these risks, including guidelines specific to trading, and seek to monitor compliance through our dedicated compliance teams. We also seek to maintain a
 
positive and collaborative relationship with 
regulators and the industry at large.
Reporting
Failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory action, legal liability and reputational damage.
Our accounting reporting and control team 
provides assurance of the control environment and is accountable for building control and compliance into finance processes and digital systems.How we manage risk and risk factors continued

77
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Strategic and commercial risks
Prices and markets: our financial performance 
is impacted by fluctuating prices of oil, gas and refined products, technological change, exchange rate fluctuations, and the general macroeconomic outlook.
Oil, gas and product prices are subject to 
international supply and demand and margins can be volatile.
Political developments, fluctuations to the 
supply of either oil and gas developments or to
 
alternative low carbon energy sources, 
technological change, global economic conditions, public health situations, the introduction of new carbon costs and the influence of OPEC+ can impact supply and demand and prices for our products.
Decreases in oil, gas or product prices could 
have an adverse effect on revenue, margins, profitability and cash flows. If these reductions are significant or for a prolonged period, we may have to write down assets and reassess the viability of certain projects, which may impact future cash flows, profit, capital expenditure
, 
the ability to work within our financial frame and maintain our long-term investment programme. Conversely, an increase in oil, gas and product prices may not improve margin performance as
 
there could be increased fiscal take, cost 
inflation and more onerous terms for access to
 
resources. The profitability of our refining 
activities can be volatile, with periodic oversupply or supply tightness in regional markets and fluctuations in demand.
Exchange rate fluctuations can create currency 
exposures and impact underlying costs and revenues. Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while products vary in currency. Many of our major project development costs are denominated in local currencies, which may be subject to fluctuations against the US dollar.
Accessing and progressing hydrocarbon 
resources and low carbon opportunities: inability to access and progress hydrocarbon resources and low carbon opportunities could adversely affect delivery of our strategy.Risk factors
The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the 
implementation of our strategy, our business, financial performance, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity, prospects, shareholder value and returns and reputation.
Delivery of our strategy depends partly on our 
ability to progress hydrocarbon resources from our existing portfolio and access new resources in our existing core regions. Our ability to progress upstream resources and develop technologies at a level in line with our strategic outlook for hydrocarbon production could impact our future production and financial performance. Furthermore, our ability to access low carbon opportunities and the commercial terms associated with those opportunities could impact our financial performance and the pace of our transition to an integrated energy company in line with our strategy.
Major project delivery:  failure to invest in the 
best opportunities or deliver major projects 
successfully could adversely affect our financial
 p
erformance.
We face challenges in developing major projects, particularly in geographically and technically challenging areas. Poor investment choice, efficiency or delivery, inflation, supply chain, or operational challenges at any major project that underpins production or production growth, could adversely affect our financial performance.
Geopolitical:  exposure to a range of political 
developments and consequent changes to the 
operating and regulatory environment could cause business disruption.
We operate and may seek new opportunities 
in
 
countries, regions and cities where political, 
economic and social transition may take place.
Political instability, changes to the regulatory 
environment or taxation, international trade disputes and barriers to free trade, international sanctions, expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, insurrections, acts of terrorism, acts of war and public health situations (including the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic) may disrupt or curtail our operations, business activities or investments.
These may in turn cause production to decline, 
limit our ability to pursue new opportunities, affect the recoverability of our assets and our related earnings and cash flow or cause us to incur additional costs, particularly due to the long-term nature of many of our projects and significant capital expenditure required.Trade restrictions, international sanctions or any other actions taken by governmental authorities or other relevant persons have had and could continue to have an impact on global energy supply and demand, market volatility and the prices of oil, gas and products. 
Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, 
including credit, exposure: failure to work within our financial framework could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Failure to accurately forecast or work within our 
financial framework could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss. Trade and other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be recovered, divestments may not be successfully completed and a substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request could disrupt our financial framework or overwhelm our ability to meet our obligations.
An event such as a significant operational 
incident, legal proceedings or a geopolitical event in an area where we have significant activities, could reduce our financial liquidity and our credit ratings. Credit rating downgrades could potentially increase financing costs and limit access to financing or engagement in our trading activities on acceptable terms, which could put pressure on the group’s liquidity.
They could also potentially require the company 
to review the funding arrangements with the bp pension trustees. In the event of extended constraints on our ability to obtain financing, we could be required to reduce capital expenditure or increase asset disposals in order to provide additional liquidity.
Liquidity and capital resources, page 340  
Financial statements – Note 29
Joint arrangements and contractors:  varying 
levels of control over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners, including non-operated joint ventures (NOJV’s), contractors and sub-contractors could result in
 
legal liability and reputational damage.

78
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023We conduct many of our activities through joint 
arrangements, partners or with contractors and sub-contractors where we may have limited influence and control over the performance of such activities.
Our partners and contractors are responsible for 
the adequacy of their resources and capabilities. If these are found to be lacking, there may be financial, reputational, operational or safety exposures for bp. Should an incident occur in an activity that bp participates in, our partners and contractors may be unable or unwilling to fully compensate us against costs we may incur on their behalf or on behalf of the arrangement. Where we do not have operational control of a
 
joint arrangement or direct oversight of 
contractor activity, we may still be pursued by regulators or claimants, and may still be the focus for interest groups or media attention in the event of an incident.
Digital infrastructure, cyber security and data 
protection:  breach or failure of our or third 
parties’ digital infrastructure or cyber security, including loss or misuse of sensitive information could damage our operations, increase costs and damage our reputation.
The energy industry is subject to fast-evolving 
risks, including ransomware, from cyber threat actors, including nation states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and insiders. Current geopolitical factors have increased these risks. There is also growing regulation around data protection and data privacy, critical national infrastructure and the evolving opportunities and threats from artificial intelligence. A breach or failure of our or third parties’ digital infrastructure – including control systems – due to breaches of our cyber defences, or those of third parties, negligence, intentional misconduct or other reasons, could seriously disrupt our operations. This could result in the loss or misuse of data or sensitive information, including employees’ and customers’ personal data, injury to people, disruption to our business, harm to the environment or our assets, legal or regulatory breaches, legal liability and significant costs including fines, cost of remediation or reputational consequences. Furthermore, the rapid detection of attempts to
 
gain unauthorized access to our digital 
infrastructure, often through the use of sophisticated and co-ordinated means, is a challenge and any delay or failure to detect could compound these potential harms.
Cyber security disclosures, page 360
Climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy:  developments in policy, law, 
regulation, technology and markets, including societal and investor sentiment, related to the issue of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy could increase costs, reduce revenues, constrain our operations and affect our
 
business plans and financial performance.
Laws, regulations, policies, obligations, government actions, social attitudes and customer preferences relating to climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy, including the pace of change to any of these factors, and also the pace of the transition itself, could have adverse impacts on our business including on our access to and realization of competitive opportunities in any of our strategic pillars, a decline in demand for, or constraints on our ability to sell certain products, constraints on production and supply, adverse litigation and regulatory or litigation outcomes, increased costs from compliance and increased provisions for environmental and legal liabilities.
Investor preferences and sentiment are 
influenced by environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations including climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy. Changes in those preferences and sentiment could affect our access to capital markets and our attractiveness to potential investors, potentially resulting in reduced access to financing, increased financing costs and impacts upon our business plans and financial performance.
Technological improvements or innovations 
that
 
support the transition to a lower carbon 
economy, and customer preferences or regulatory incentives that alter fuel or power choices, could impact demand for oil and gas.
Depending on the nature and speed of any such 
changes and our response, these changes could increase costs, reduce our profitability, reduce demand for certain products, limit our access to new opportunities, require us to write down certain assets or curtail or cease certain operations, and affect investor sentiment, our access to capital markets, our competitiveness and financial performance.
Policy, legal, regulatory, technological and 
market developments related to climate change could also affect future price assumptions used in the assessment of recoverability of asset carrying values including goodwill, the judgement as to whether there is continued intent to develop exploration and appraisal intangible assets, the timing of decommissioning of assets and the useful economic lives of assets used for the calculation of depreciation and amortization.
Climate-related financial disclosures, page
 
55 and Financial statements 
–
 N
ote
 
1
 
and Note
 
33Competition:  inability to remain efficient, 
maintain a high-quality portfolio of assets and innovate could negatively impact delivery of our
 
strategy in a highly competitive market.
Our strategic progress and performance could be impeded if we are unable to control our development and operating costs and margins, if we fail to scale our businesses at pace, or to sustain, develop and operate a high-quality portfolio of assets efficiently. Furthermore, as we transition from an international oil company to an integrated energy company, we face an expanded and rapidly evolving range of competitors in the sectors in which we operate.
We could be adversely affected if competitors 
offer superior terms for access rights or licences, or if our innovation in areas such as new low carbon technologies, digital, customer offer, exploration, production, refining, manufacturing or renewable energy lags behind those of our competitors. Our performance could also be negatively impacted if we fail to protect our intellectual property.
Talent and capability:  inability to attract, 
develop and retain people with necessary skills 
and capabilities could negatively impact delivery of our strategy.
The sectors in which we operate face increasing 
challenges to attract and retain diverse, skilled and capable talent. An inability to successfully recruit, develop and retain core skills and capabilities and to reskill existing talent could negatively impact delivery of our strategy.
Crisis management and business continuity: 
failure to address an incident effectively could potentially disrupt our business.
Our reputation and business activities could be 
negatively impacted if we do not respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any major crisis.
Insurance:  our insurance strategy could expose 
the group to material uninsured losses.bp insures in situations where this is legally and 
contractually required. Some risks are insured with third parties and reinsured by group insurance companies. Uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, particularly if they arise at a time when we are facing material costs as a result of a significant operational event which could put pressure on our liquidity and cash flows.How we manage risk and risk factors continued

79
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Strategic report  See glossary on page 373Safety and operational risks
Process safety, personal safety, and 
environmental risks: exposure to a wide range of health, safety and environmental risks could cause harm to people, the environment and our assets and result in regulatory action, legal liability, business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Technical integrity failure, natural disasters, 
extreme weather or a change in its frequency or severity, human error and other adverse events or conditions, including breach of digital security, could lead to loss of containment of hazardous materials, including hydrocarbons
. 
This could also lead to fires, explosions or other personal and process safety incidents when drilling wells, constructing and operating facilities; in addition to activities associated with transportation by road, sea or pipeline. There can be no certainty that our OMS or other policies and procedures will adequately identify all process safety, personal safety and environmental risks or that all our operating activities, including acquired businesses, will be conducted in conformance with these systems.
Safety, page 69
Such events or conditions or inability to provide safe environments for our workforce and the public while at our facilities, premises or during transportation, could lead to injuries, loss of life or environmental damage. As a result, we could face regulatory action and legal liability, including penalties and remediation obligations, increased costs and potentially denial of our licence to operate. Our activities are sometimes conducted in hazardous, remote or environmentally sensitive locations, where the consequences of such events or conditions could be greater than in other locations.
Drilling and production:  challenging operational 
environments and other uncertainties could 
impact drilling and production activities.
Our activities require high levels of investment 
and are sometimes conducted in challenging environments such as those prone to natural disasters and extreme weather, which heightens the risks of technical integrity failure. The physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas
 
field, and cost of drilling, completing or 
operating wells are often uncertain. We may be
 
required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling 
operations or stop production because of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental requirements.Security:  hostile acts against our employees 
and activities could cause harm to people and disrupt our operations.
Acts of terrorism, piracy, sabotage, activism and 
similar activities directed against our operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or digital infrastructure could cause harm to people and severely disrupt operations. Our activities could also be severely affected by conflict, civil strife or political unrest.
Product quality:  supplying customers with 
off-specification products could damage our 
reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, and impact our financial performance.
Failure to meet product quality specifications 
could cause harm to people and the environment, damage our reputation, result in regulatory action and legal liability, and impact financial performance.
Compliance and control risks
Ethical misconduct and non-compliance:  
ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could be damaging to our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory action and penalties.
Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption, competition and antitrust, data privacy, and anti-fraud laws, trade restrictions or
 
other sanctions, could damage our reputation, 
and result in litigation, regulatory action, penalties and potentially affect our licence to operate. In relation to trade restrictions or other sanctions, current geopolitical factors have increased these risks.
Regulation:  changes in the law and regulation 
could increase costs, constrain our operations 
and affect our strategy, business plans and financial performance.
Our businesses and operations are subject to 
the laws and regulations applicable in each country, state or other regional or local area in which they occur. These laws and regulations result in an often complex, uncertain and changing legal and regulatory environment for our global businesses and operations. Changes in laws or regulations, including how they are interpreted and enforced, can and do impact all aspects of our business.
Royalties and taxes, particularly those applied 
to our hydrocarbon activities, tend to be high compared with those imposed on similar commercial activities. In certain jurisdictions there is also a degree of uncertainty relating to tax law interpretation and changes.Governments may change their fiscal and regulatory frameworks in response to public pressure on finances or for other policy reasons, resulting in increased amounts payable to them or their agencies.
Changes in law or regulation could increase the 
compliance and litigation risk and costs, reduce our profitability, reduce demand for or constrain our ability to sell certain products, limit our access to new opportunities, require us to divest or write down certain assets or curtail or cease certain operations, or affect the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, decommissioning, environmental and legal liabilities. Changes in laws or regulations could result in the nationalization, expropriation, cancellation, non-renewal or renegotiation of our interests, assets and related rights. Potential changes to pension or financial market regulation could also impact funding requirements of the group. Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, we may be subjected to a higher level of fines or penalties imposed in relation to any alleged breaches of laws or regulations, which could result in increased costs.
Regulation of the group’s business, pages
 
353-357
Trading and treasury trading activities: ineffective oversight of trading and treasury trading activities could lead to business disruption, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation and affect our permissions to trade.
We are subject to operational risk around our 
trading and treasury trading activities in financial and commodity markets, some of which are regulated. Failure to process, manage and monitor a large number of complex transactions across many markets and currencies while complying with all regulatory requirements could hinder profitable trading opportunities. There is a risk that a single trader or a group of traders could act outside of our delegations and controls, leading to regulatory intervention and resulting in financial loss, fines and potentially damaging our reputation, and could affect our permissions to trade.
Financial statements – Note  29
Reporting:  failure to accurately report our data 
could lead to regulatory action, legal liability and
 
reputational damage.
External reporting of financial and non-financial data, including reserves estimates, relies on the integrity of the control environment, our systems and people operating them. Failure to report data accurately and in compliance with applicable standards could result in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.

80
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Compliance information
bp non-financial and sustainability information statement
Produced in compliance with Sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act. Information incorporated by cross reference.
Requirement Relevant policies and standardsInformation related to policies and any  
due diligence processes
a Environmental matters •  N et zero aims
•
 TC
FD
•
 S
ustainability frame
•
 Bio
diversity position (online)•  C limate-related financial disclosures– pages 55-68
•
 C
aring for our planet aims – page 54
•
 O
ur Operating Management System  (OMS) – page 69
•
 D
ecision making by the board – page 89
b Employees •
 Re
invent bp guidelines
•
 b
p values and code of conduct (online)•
 O
ur people – page 70
•
 S
afety – page 69
•
 O
ur values (‘Who we are’) and code of conduct – page 72
•
 E
mployee engagement (‘Pulse annual’ employee survey) – page 71
•
 H
ow the board engaged with stakeholders (workforce) – page 92
c Social matters •
 S
ustainability frame •
 O
ur Operating Management System (OMS) – page 69
•
 I
mproving people’s lives – page 53
•
 D
ecision making by the board – page 89
d Respect for human rights •
 B
usiness and human rights policy (online)
•
 M
odern slavery statement (online)
•
 L
abour rights and modern slavery principles (online)
•
 C
ode of conduct (online)•
 I
mproving people’s lives – page 53
•
 H
uman rights – page 53
•
 O
ur values and code of conduct – page 72
e Anti-corruption and anti-bribery •
 A
nti-bribery and corruption policy
•
 C
ode of conduct (online)•
 E
thics and compliance – page 72
•
 O
ur partners in joint arrangements – page 70
Description of principal risks relating 
to matters (a-e above)•
 H
ow we manage risk – pages 73-76
•
 R
isk factors – pages 77-79
•
 T
CFD (climate-related risk management) – page 58
Relevant information
Business model description •  B usiness model – pages 16-17
Description of non-financial KPIs •
 M
easuring our progress – pages 24, 26-27
TCFD index tablea
Our TCFD disclosures can be found on the following pages.
TCFD Recommendation TCFD Recommended Disclosure Where reported
Governance  
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related issues and opportunities.a
  D escribe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities.•  P ages 55-56
b
 D
escribe the management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities.•
 P
ages 56-58
Strategy  
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s business, strategy and financial planning where such information is material.a
 D
escribe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.•
 P
ursuing a strategy that is consistent with the Paris goals, page 14
•
 S
trategy, page 12
•
 R
isk factors, page 77
b
 D
escribe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.•
 R
isk factors, page 77 – description of principal risks
•
 S
trategy, page 12
c
 D
escribe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.•
 S
trategy, page 12
•
 P
ursuing a strategy that is consistent with the Paris goals, page 14
Risk management  
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks.a
 D
escribe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.•
 R
isk management, page 58
•
 H
ow we manage risk, page 73
•
 R
isk factors, page 77
b
 D
escribe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related risks.•
 R
isk management, page 58
•
 H
ow we manage risk, page 73
c D
escribe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.•
 R
isk management, page 58
•
 H
ow we manage risk, page 73
•
 R
isk factors – page 77
Metrics and targets  
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.a
 D
isclose the metrics used by the organization to assess 
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.•
 O
ur strategic pillars and metrics, page 13
•
 O
ur group-wide principal metrics and relevant targets, page 68
b
 D
isclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
GHG emissions, and the related risks.•
 G
HG emissions data, page 51
c
 D
escribe the targets used by the organization to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.•
 O
ur net zero targets and aims at a glance, pages 48-49
Section 172 statement
In accordance with the requirements of Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the directors consider that, during the financial year ended 
31 December 2023, they have acted in a way that they consider, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole, having regard to the likely consequences of any decision in the long term and the broader interests of other stakeholders, as required by the Act.
For more information in support of this statement, see decision making by the board, page 89, board activities, page 90-91 and our stakeholders,  page 92-93
The Strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by Ben J.S. Mathews, company secretary, on 8 March 2024.a W e consider the information in our TCFD disclosures, taken together with our climate-related non-financial KPIs on pages 26-27  of this report, to be compliant with the disclosure requirements of 
Section 414CB of the Companies Act, as amended by the UK CFD Regulations.

81
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governanceIntroduction from the chair 82
Board of directors 83
Leadership team 86
Governance framework 88
Decision making by the board 89
Board activities 90
Our stakeholders 92
People and governance committee 94
Audit committee 98
Safety and sustainability committee 103
Remuneration committee 105
Directors’ remuneration report 105
Other disclosures 133
Directors’ statements 134Corporate  
governance
Tangguh renewable natural gas plant, Indonesia

82
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Introduction from the chair
Dear fellow shareholders,
Each year seems to bring more challenges for 
company boards – a more demanding operating environment in the context of geopolitical shifts, technology advancements and of course, the ongoing complexity of the energy transition.  Our corporate governance framework was established in 2020, recognising the need  for it to be both dynamic and flexible in its application to a range of different situations. Looking back on 2023, it’s safe to say that it  has served us well. 
The framework provides a clear mandate and 
defines responsibilities for the board’s main committees. It has enabled the board to apply its time to the most important areas requiring its focus and expertise. 
In 2023 these included responding to an 
ever-changing macro environment and the appointment of a new chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO). Underpinned by this framework, throughout the
 
year, the board has extensively engaged 
with  
stakeholders – and with shareholders, 
in
 
particular. This engagement has been 
particularly valuable and has informed the board’s discussions and decision making. 
Executive director succession 
bp’s succession plans are routinely reviewed by the board’s people and governance committee and we were able to activate those plans swiftly last year. 
The board appointed an interim CEO within 
hours of the former CEO’s resignation in September, implementing an emergency succession process for this most important executive role. Our governance framework provided a similarly clear structure for us
 
to
 
progress through to the permanent 
appointments of Murray Auchincloss (previously CFO) as CEO and, in turn, Kate Thomson as CFO. This was all achieved within five months of the former CEO’s departure. Although conducted at pace, the selection process was robust, competitive and resulted in
 
full agreement among the board on the best 
candidates for these roles. See page  
95 for 
more details. Murray cares deeply about bp and its people. He brings in-depth understanding of the opportunities and challenges in the energy transition and he has demonstrated leadership that is focused on teamwork, performance and delivery. Kate’s appointment recognizes her detailed understanding of bp and the energy and finance sectors, combined with deep technical expertise. 
Throughout this period of change, the board  
has maintained a constructive and productive relationship with the leadership team. 
Focus on culture
As a board, we are conscious of our responsibility to assess and monitor bp’s  culture and to seek assurance from the leadership team that corrective action is being taken where practices or behaviours are not aligned with the company’s ‘Who we are’ culture frame. With this in mind, a dedicated committee of the board was established in 2023 on an interim basis with a focus on psychological safety and speaking up. The committee’s  work was supported by data-led analysis  and workforce engagement sessions. 
The committee has served us well and its 
activities have provided a fresh foundation for the people and governance committee to now assume its responsibilities supporting the board in its assessment and monitoring of culture. 
Purposeful engagement 
Among the most rewarding experiences in  2023 was to see first-hand some of the work bp is doing around the world, particularly meeting the people delivering our strategy on the ground. 
Our safety and sustainability committee 
travelled to Indonesia and visited bp’s liquefied natural gas facility at Tangguh, seeing for themselves the positive effect of our operations on the local community. Members of the board also went to the US, visiting operations in the Permian Basin and the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico, and in the UK they met our internal audit and finance teams in Sunbury and the trading and shipping teams in London. I also enjoyed meetings with people across bp, learning more about the business and the challenges being faced – and these views have been reflected in our board conversations. 
This experience was complemented by our 
bespoke workforce engagement programme which allows my board colleagues to participate in small groups focusing on set themes. Having the themes aligned with the board’s agenda for the year gave us a good insight into the views and concerns of a broad range of the bp workforce and further informed our discussions and the decisions we have taken.
Board evolution 
Paula Rosput Reynolds and Sir John Sawers will both shortly reach the end of their nine years’ tenure on our board and will step down at the end of our annual general meeting in April 2024. I thank them for their valued service to bp. 
I am pleased that Amanda Blanc will take on 
the
 
role of senior independent director and, for 
an interim period, Tushar Morzaria will become chair of the remuneration committee. Having undertaken a thorough assessment of time commitment (see page 133 ) the board is 
satisfied that they each have sufficient capacity to dedicate the time necessary for these roles. 
The board continues to evolve, and I am pleased 
to say that with over 50% female and over 20% ethnic minority representation we exceed both the targets set out in the new UK Listing Rules and the 2027 Parker Review targets relating to
 
ethnic diversity on UK boards. There is, of 
course, always more to do and I thank my  board colleagues for their dedicated service  in 2023 and their ongoing commitment to  your company.
Closing thanks
I would like to close by thanking the bp teams who have continued to operate bp safely and effectively and its leadership for their focus. And finally, I would like to thank you, fellow shareholders, for your continued confidence in bp.
Helge Lund
Chair8 March 2024Throughout the year, the board has 
extensively engaged with stakeholders – and with shareholders, in particular.  

6March 2024 7
March 2023
7March 2024 6
March 2023Female
Male1.
2.
3.
3. Non-UK/USa61. UK
2. US3March
2023
44March
2024
4
5
a Norway, India, Canada, Germany1.
2.3.
3. 7-9 years 21. 1-3 years
2. 4-6 years6March
2023
36March
2024
3
2
83
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Board of directors
As at 8 March 2024
Board gender diversity Board nationality Non-executive directors’ tenure
Committee membership key
Chair Remuneration committee
Audit committee People and governance committee
Safety and sustainability committeeAppointed  Board: 26 July 2018; chair: 1 January 2019
Nationality  Norwegian
External appointments
•
 C
hair of Novo Nordisk AS.
•
 O
perating advisor to Clayton Dubilier & Rice.
•
 M
ember of the Board of Trustees of the International 
Crisis Group.
•
 M
ember of the European Round Table for Industry.
•
 M
entor at Chair Mentors International.
Significant past appointments•
 Ch
ief executive of BG Group.
•
 P
resident and chief executive officer of Equinor 
and 
Aker Kvaerner.
•
 E
xecutive of Aker RGI and Hafslund Nycomed.
•
 N
on-executive director of Schlumberger and Nokia.
•
 M
ember of the United Nations Secretary-General’s 
Advisory Group on Sustainable Energy.
•
 C
onsultant at McKinsey & Company.
•
 P
arliamentary group political advisor of the 
Conservative party, Norway.
Key skills and experience•
 D
istinguished career as a leader in the energy sector 
with deep industry knowledge and global business 
experience. 
•
 H
elge drives cohesion, constructive challenge and 
oversight of bp’s strategy and net zero ambition through forward-looking and innovative leadership of
 
the board. Appointed  Executive director: 1 July 2020; chief 
executive officer: 17 January 2024
Nationality  Canadian
External appointments•
 B
oard member of Aker BP ASA.
•
 M
ain committee member of The 100 Group.
Significant past appointments•
 J
oined Amoco in 1992 and then bp when the two 
companies merged in 1998.
•
 S
enior roles in finance and management at bp, 
across tax, business development, mergers and 
acquisitions and performance management.
•
 C
hief of staff to bp chief executive officer.
•
 C
FO BP p.l.c.
•
 I
nterim CEO BP p.l.c.
Key skills and experience
•
 M
urray drives bp’s strategy to transform bp from an 
international oil company to an integrated energy 
company and has extensive experience and knowledge of the energy sector.
•
 P
rovides deep insight into bp’s assets and 
businesses through broad experience across the group, extensive financial expertise and experience.Appointed  2 February 2024
Nationality  British
External appointments
•
 B
oard member of Aker BP ASA.
•
 M
ember of the European Round Table for CFOs.
Significant past appointments•
 J
oined bp in 2004.
•
 G
roup treasurer, BP p.l.c. 
•
 G
roup head of tax, BP p.l.c. 
•
 S
VP finance for production & operations, BP p.l.c.
•
 I
nterim CFO BP p.l.c.
Key skills and experience•
 K
ate has a detailed understanding and experience 
of
 
the energy sector.
•
 P
rovides deep technical insight from her broad 
experience of leading teams across the group in tax, 
treasury and commercial finance. Helge Lund ChairMurray AuchinclossChief executive officer (CEO)Kate ThomsonChief financial officer  
(CFO)Board at a glance
Director biographies  
Further biographical details for each director are available online at bp.com/whoweare

84
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Tushar Morzaria 
Independent non-executive director
Pamela Daley 
Independent non
-
executive 
directorMelody Meyer Independent non-executive director
Dame Amanda Blanc Independent non
-
executive 
directorAppointed  1 September 2020
Nationality  British
External appointments
•
 N
on-executive director of Legal & General Group plc.
•
 N
on-executive chairman of EMEA Investment 
Banking, Barclays.
Significant past appointments•
 G
roup finance director and member of the board 
of
 
Barclays PLC 2013 to 2022.
•
 V
arious senior roles at JP Morgan, including CFO 
of
 
its Corporate & Investment Bank.
Key skills and experience•
 O
ver 25 years of strategic financial management, 
investment banking, operational and regulatory 
relations experience.
•
 B
readth of knowledge and insight into financial, tax, 
treasury, investor relations and strategic matters.
•
 S
trong experience in delivering corporate 
change programmes while maintaining a focus on performance. 
Appointed  26 July 2018
Nationality  American
External appointments
•
 D
irector of BlackRock, Inc.
•
 D
irector of SecureWorks, Inc.
Significant past appointments•
 V
arious senior executive roles at General Electric 
Company (GE), including senior vice president of 
business development 2004 to 2013. 
•
 S
enior vice president and senior advisor to the 
chair
 
at GE in 2013.
•
 D
irector of BG Group plc 2014 to 2016.
•
 D
irector of Patheon N.V. 2016 to 2017.
•
 P
artner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius.
Key skills and experience
•
 Q
ualified lawyer with a wealth of global business 
and strategic experience. 
•
 B
oard-level experience of the UK oil and gas 
industry and executive experience in highly 
regulated industries. Appointed  17 May 2017
Nationality  American
External appointments
•
 N
on-executive director of AbbVie Inc.
•
 P
resident of Melody Meyer Energy LLC.
•
 D
irector of the National Bureau of Asian Research.
•
 T
rustee of Trinity University.
Significant past appointments•
 P
resident of Chevron Asia Pacific E&P until 2016 
after 37 years of service in key leadership roles 
in 
global exploration and production.
•
 E
xecutive sponsor of the Chevron Women’s 
Network  
until 2016.
Key skills and experience
•
 D
eep understanding of the factors influencing safe, 
efficient and commercially high-performing projects 
in a global organization.
•
 E
xpertise in the execution of major capital projects, 
technology, R&D, creation of businesses in new countries, strategic business planning, merger integration, leading change, and safe and reliable operations.
Appointed  1 September 2022
Nationality  British
External appointments
•
 CEO
 of Aviva plc.
•
 C
o-chair of the UK Transition Taskforce.
•
 H
M Treasury’s Women in Finance Champion.
•
 P
rincipal member of Glasgow Financial Alliance 
for
 
Net Zero (GFANZ).
•
 M
ember of the Association of British Insurers Board.
Significant past appointments•
 B
egan career as a graduate at Commercial Union, 
one of Aviva’s ancestor companies, and held several 
senior executive roles across the insurance industry.
•
 G
roup CEO at AXA UK, PPP & Ireland.
•
 C
EO of Europe, Middle East, Africa & Global Banking 
at Zurich Insurance Group.
•
 L
eadership positions at Groupama Insurance 
Company and Commercial Union.
•
 M
ember of the Prime Minister’s Business Council.
Key skills and experience
•
 E
xperience leading insurance businesses in the UK 
and across Europe and developing the standard for 
private sector climate transition plans.
•
 W
ide-ranging board, industry and regulatory 
experience.  
  Hina Nagarajan Independent non-executive director
Appointed  1 March 2023
Nationality  Indian
External appointments
•
 M
anaging director and CEO of United Spirits Limited 
(Diageo India).
•
 M
ember of the global executive committee 
of
 
Diageo plc.
•
 B
oard member of The Advertising Standards 
Council
 
of India.
•
 D
irector and co-chair of International Spirits 
and
 
Wines Association of India.
Significant past appointments•
 L
eadership positions at Reckitt, Mary Kay India and 
Nestlé India with over 30 years in the fast-moving 
consumer goods (FMCG) industry.
•
 N
on-executive director at two companies which 
were
 
publicly quoted at the time: Guinness Ghana 
Breweries Plc and Seychelles Breweries Limited.
Key skills and experience
•
 D
eep and wide-ranging experience in customer-
focused FMCG businesses in complex emerging 
markets. 
•
 E
xtensive experience in assessing climate-related 
risks and opportunities from oversight of sustainability initiatives.Appointed  Board: 14 May 2015; senior independent 
director: 27 May 2020
Nationality  American
External appointments•
 D
irector and chair of National Grid plc.
•
 N
on-executive director of General Electric Company.
•
 N
on-executive director of Linde plc.
Significant past appointments•
 B
egan career at Pacific Gas & Electric Corp in 1979 
and spent over 25 years in the energy industry.
•
 C
EO Duke Energy Power Services.
•
 C
hair, president and CEO of AGL Resources.
•
 C
hair and CEO of Safeco Corporation. 
•
 V
ice-chair and chief restructuring officer of AIG.
•
 N
on-executive director of TransCanada Corporation; 
CBRE Group, Inc; BAE Systems PLC; Anadarko 
Petroleum; Delta Air Lines; and Coca Cola Enterprises.
•
 C
hair of the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance.
Key skills and experience
•
 L
ong career leading international and US companies 
in energy and financial sectors.
•
 D
eep strategic and regulatory experience and broad 
business expertise, including leading through 
multiple restructuring processes and mergers.Paula Rosput Reynolds Senior independent director
  

85
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Sir John Sawers 
Independent non
-
executive 
director
Ben J S MathewsCompany secretarySatish Pai Independent non
-
executive 
director
Appointed  14 May 2015
Nationality  British
External appointments
•
 V
isiting professor at King’s College London.
•
 S
enior advisor at Chatham House.
•
 S
enior fellow at the Royal United Services Institute.
•
 G
lobal advisor at the Council on Foreign Relations.
•
 G
overnor of the Ditchley Foundation.
•
 D
irector of the Bilderberg Association, UK.
•
 E
xecutive chair of Newbridge Advisory Limited.
Significant past appointments•
 3
6 years in UK public services, working on foreign 
policy, international security and intelligence.
•
 C
hief of the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, 2009 
to 2014.
•
 P
art of the Diplomatic Service; represented the 
British government around the world and led 
negotiations at the United Nations, European Union
 
and G8.
•
 C
hair and general partner of Macro Advisory 
Partners February 2015 to May 2019.
•
 S
et up own firm, Newbridge Advisory.
Key skills and experience
•
 D
eep experience of international political 
and
 
commercial matters. 
•
 E
xpertise in assisting the board to navigate 
geopolitical issues. 
Appointed  7 May 2019
Role and career summaryBen joined bp as company secretary in May 2019. He 
is the co-chair of the Corporate Governance Council of the Conference Board and is a Fellow of the Chartered Governance Institute. Ben serves on the executive committee of the Association of General Counsel and Company Secretaries of the FTSE 100 (GC100), having previously served as its chair for four years.
Ben’s global company secretary team is responsible 
for providing independent advice and support to the plc board and the boards of all other legal entities in
 
the bp group. The team’s vision is to enhance 
stakeholder value through dynamic corporate governance.
Former appointments include Group Company 
Secretary of HSBC Holdings plc and Rio Tinto.Appointed  1 March 2023
Nationality  Indian
External appointments
•
 M
anaging director of Hindalco Industries Limited.
•
 D
irector of Novelis Inc.
•
 N
on-executive director, Aditya Birla Management 
Corporation Ltd. 
•
 D
irector, Indian Institute of Metals.
Significant past appointments•
 E
xecutive vice president, worldwide operations 
and
 
other engineering and management roles at 
Schlumberger across 28 years of service.
Key skills and experience•
 A
ccomplished and transformative executive with 
operations and technology experience in the 
resources and energy industries. 
•
 S
trong digital capability and experience. 
Board attendance 
in 
2023Eight  
scheduled 
meetingsFive  
ad hoc 
meetings
Non-executive directors
Helge Lunda7/8 5/5
Dame Amanda Blancb8/8 4/5
Pamela Daleyb8/8 4/5
Melody Meyer 8/8 5/5
Tushar Morzariab8/8 4/5
Hina Nagarajanbc7/ 7 3/4
Satish Paibc7/ 7 3/4
Paula Rosput Reynolds 8/8 5/5
Karen Richardsonb8/8 3/5
Sir John Sawers 8/8 5/5
Dr Johannes Teyssend7/8 5/5
Executive directorsMurray Auchincloss
b8/8 4/5
Bernard Looneye5/5 3/3Dr Johannes Teyssen 
Independent non-executive directorKaren Richardson Independent non-executive director
Appointed  1 January 2021
Nationality  German
External appointments
•
 S
enior advisor to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
•
 P
resident of Alpiq Holding Ltd.
•
 S
enior advisor to Viridor Limited.
Significant past appointments•
 S
everal leadership positions at VEBA AG (merged 
with VIAG AG in 2000 and renamed to E.ON AG and 
later to E.ON SE).
•
 M
ember of the board of management of the E.ON 
Group’s central management company in Munich in
 
2001 and E.ON SE in 2004.
•
 V
ice-chair of E.ON SE, 2008 and CEO, 2010. 
•
 P
resident of Eurelectric 2013 to 2015.
•
 V
ice-chair of the World Energy Council, responsible 
for Europe, 2006 to 2012.
•
 M
ember of the supervisory board of Salzgitter AG 
2006 to 2016 and Deutsche Bank AG 2008 to 2018.
Key skills and experience
•
 E
xtensive experience and deep knowledge of the 
energy sector and its continuing transformation.
•
 C
onsiderable knowledge and experience of 
climate-related risk oversight. Appointed  1 January 2021
Nationality  American
External appointments•
 Pa
rtner at Artius Capital Partners.
•
 N
on-executive director (lead independent director) 
of
 
Exponent, Inc.
Significant past appointments•
 S
enior operating roles in the public and private 
technology sector.
•
 V
ice president of sales at Netscape Communications 
Corporation 1995 to 1998.
•
 S
enior executive roles at E.piphany from 1998, 
including CEO 2003 to 2006. 
•
 N
on-executive director of BT plc 2011 to 2018.
•
 D
irector of Worldpay Inc. (Worldpay Group plc) 
2016  
to 2019.
•
 C
hair of Origin Materials Inc. 2021 to 2024.
Key skills and experience•
 E
xtensive knowledge of digital, technology, cyber 
and IT security matters.
•
 3
0 years’ technology industry experience including 
working with innovative Silicon Valley companies.
a H elge was unable to attend the scheduled meeting in May due to an important commitment for and on behalf of bp. He received 
accompanying material and had the opportunity to provide comments to the board.
b 
 I
n respect of the five ad hoc meetings which took place outside the scheduled board calendar, which is agreed far in advance:
 D
ame Amanda, Pamela and Karen were unable to attend the meeting in December, and Tushar was unable to attend the meeting 
in June, due to prior commitments which the board was notified of. Karen was unable to attend the meeting in June due to an 
important commitment for and on behalf of bp. They received accompanying material and had the opportunity to provide comments to the board. Murray was recused from attending the meeting in September that considered the appointment of the interim CEO, while Hina and Satish were unable to make this meeting due to the short notice at which it was convened.
c
 H
ina and Satish each joined the board effective 1 March 2023 and attended all scheduled meetings held after their appointments. 
d
 J
ohannes was unable to attend the scheduled meeting in October due to a prior commitment which the board was notified of. He 
received accompanying material and had the opportunity to provide comments to the board.
e
 B
ernard ceased to be a member of the board effective 12 September 2023 and had attended all meetings prior to this date.
Of the 13 board meetings held in 2023, eight were scheduled as part of the routine board calendar and five were scheduled on an ad
 
hoc basis. Four scheduled meetings covered a full agenda across strategy, performance, people and governance. Two scheduled 
board meetings were focused on the quarterly results and two meetings reviewed a full agenda and the quarterly results. 

86
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Leadership team
As at 8 March 2024
Integrators
From left to right
William Lin
EVP regions, corporates & solutions
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 July 2020
Nationality  American
Other board membershipsWilliam is a non-executive director of Pan American 
Energy Group, the largest independent energy company in Argentina. In addition, he is a member of the supervisory board for Corbion, a Dutch-listed global food ingredients and biochemicals company. He also chairs Corbion’s Sustainability & Safety Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Career summaryWilliam served as chief operating officer, upstream 
regions before joining the leadership team. He has worked in bp for 28 years, and has spent most of his career working abroad in different countries. His previous senior roles include vice president – gas development and operations for Egypt, regional president for Asia Pacific and head of the group chief executive’s office. William managed the successful completion, start-up and operation of the Tangguh LNG facility during his time in Indonesia.Carol Howle
EVP trading & shipping
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 July 2020
Nationality  British
Other board membershipsNoneCareer summaryBefore taking on her current role, Carol ran bp shipping 
and was the chief operating officer for integrated supply and trading, oil. She has more than 20 years’ experience in the energy industry, many in integrated supply and trading. Her previous roles include chief operating officer for natural gas liquids, regional leader of global oil Europe and finance. Carol also served as the head of the group chief executive’s office.
Leigh-Ann Russell
EVP innovation & engineering
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 March 2022
Nationality  British
Other board membershipsLeigh-Ann is a non-executive director of Hill & Smith 
Holdings.
Career summaryLeigh-Ann was previously bp’s SVP procurement, 
accountable for a supply chain of around $30 billion of
 
global spend. Prior to this, she was global head of 
upstream supply chain and VP of technical functions and performance in the global wells organization. Leigh-Ann holds a degree in mechanical engineering and is a Chartered Petroleum Engineer. She is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a Fellow of the Energy Institute and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. In 2022, Leigh-Ann was conferred the honorary title of Professor of Practice of Queen’s University Belfast.Giulia Chierchia
EVP strategy, sustainability & ventures
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 July 2020
Nationality  Belgian and Italian
Other board membershipsGiulia is a non-executive director of Schneider Electric.Career summaryGiulia joined bp in April 2020 as EVP strategy, 
sustainability & ventures. In her role, Giulia drives bp’s strategy and sustainability agenda and embeds the group’s ethics and compliance within the organization. She oversees bp’s venturing investments business, which supports opportunities to enable bp’s transition and net zero ambition. Giulia also serves as a Non-Executive Director of the Board for Schneider Electric.
Prior to bp, she worked for McKinsey, where she was a 
senior partner. She led the global downstream oil and gas practice and was a key member of the chemicals and electricity, power and natural gas practices. She has more than 10 years’ experience in the energy sector, including helping companies shape their strategies for the energy transition.

87
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Business groups
From left to right
Enablers
From left to rightGordon Birrell
EVP production & operations
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 July 2020
Gordon previously served on bp’s executive team 
starting on 12 February 2020.
Nationality  British
Other board membershipsGordon is a non-executive director of Azule Energy 
Holdings Ltd.
Career summaryBefore being appointed to his new role, Gordon was 
chief operating officer for production, transformation and carbon. In his bp career, Gordon has spent time in various leadership, technical, safety and operational risk roles, including four years as bp president Azerbaijan, Georgia and Türkiye. Gordon is a Fellow of
 
the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Kerry Dryburgh
EVP people & culture
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 July 2020
Nationality  British
Other board membershipsNoneCareer summaryKerry leads people & culture at bp. Mike Sosso
EVP legal
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 January 2024
Nationality  American
Other board membershipsNoneCareer summaryMike took on the role of EVP legal in January 2024. 
In
 
his role, Mike is accountable for leading the legal 
function and executing the legal strategy for the group. Mike joined bp in 2011 and has held a number of leadership positions across legal. He also previously held the role of VP ethics and compliance. Prior to joining bp, Mike practised law in the Washington, DC office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. Anja Dotzenrath
EVP gas & low carbon energy
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 March 2022
Nationality  German
Other board membershipsNoneCareer summaryAnja has more than 30 years of experience in the 
global energy industry. Prior to her appointment, Anja was chief executive officer of RWE Renewables, one of the world’s leading renewables businesses. She previously held a broad range of leadership roles in  E.ON, including chief executive officer of E.ON Climate & Renewables. Anja held a number of senior roles in management consultancy over 15 years before joining E.ON, with a focus on energy and the industrial sector.Emma Delaney
EVP customers & products
Leadership team tenure Appointed on 1 July 2020
Emma previously served on bp’s executive team 
starting on 1 April 2020
Nationality  Irish
Other board membershipsNoneCareer summaryEmma has spent 28 years working in bp, both in the 
upstream and the downstream. Prior to joining bp’s executive team on 1 April 2020, she was regional president for West Africa. She has held a variety of senior roles including upstream chief financial officer for Asia Pacific and head of business development for gas value chains. In downstream she held roles in retail and commercial fuels and planning.
Kerry previously headed HR for bp’s upstream business while also serving as group chief talent officer. She has held a series of senior HR positions across the company, including running HR for bp’s shipping, integrated supply and trading, and corporate functions. She brings vast experience from other sectors in Europe and Asia, having worked at both BT
 
and Honeywell.

88
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Governance framework
a T he leadership team discharges its responsibilities through a number of management committees, including, among others, the group financial risk committee, group operations risk committee 
and group ethics and compliance committee. The geopolitical advisory council and digital advisory council are collaborative forums for both executive and non-executive directors to benefit from 
insights and discussions.Non-executive directors
Chair: Helge Lund leads the board and is responsible for its overall effectiveness.
Senior independent director: Paula Rosput Reynolds supports the chair and acts as an intermediary for other directors.Independent non
-e
xecutive directors: Provide support and constructive challenge to the executive management. Executive directors
Chief executive officer: as a member of the board and the bp leadership team, Murray Auchincloss contributes to the development of strategy 
and
 
has responsibility, delegated from the board, for execution of the strategy and management of the business through the bp leadership team.
Chief financial officer: as a member of both the board and the bp leadership team, Kate Thomson provides financial leadership for the business and
 
supports it in the implementation of the strategy. The board and committees delegate to the executive directors, who are supported by the leadership team in the day-to-day management  of the business
a. 
 For leadership team biographies, see pages 86-87
Company secretary
Ben Mathews advises the board on corporate governance matters, compliance with board procedures and regulatory requirements. 
For the company secretary’s biography, see page 85  Board of directors
The board is responsible for setting bp’s strategy, purpose and values and monitoring its culture. In its role to promote the long-term success  of the company, the board oversees the frameworks and systems for effective risk management and internal control. 
  K ey decisions made by the board, see page 89 . Further detail on how the board discharges its responsibilities, see pages 90-93 . 
For director biographies, see pages 83-85 .
People and governance committee
See page 94Audit committee
See page 98
Safety and sustainability committee
See page 103
Remuneration committee
See page 105CEO succession committee
See page 97
‘Who we are’ oversight committeeSee page 97Authority for decision making is formally delegated by the board under a clearly defined governance 
framework and flows through the company to ensure an appropriate and consistent approach. Certain matters are reserved for the board as a whole, with specific responsibilities delegated to committees. All this helps the company to effectively and efficiently deliver against the strategy set by the board. 
There is a formal division of responsibilities between the board and leadership team. The board is responsible for setting and overseeing the strategy, 
with the leadership team responsible for its implementation and delivery. Board role profiles are available at bp.com/governance . 
Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the chief executive officer (CEO) who is supported by the bp leadership team. The framework is supported by board and committee terms of reference which are reviewed annually and available at bp.com/governance . 
Role descriptions 

89
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Decision making by the board
Set out below are examples of key decisions taken by the board during 2023, which demonstrate 
how Section 172 stakeholder considerations and impacts have been taken into account as part of
 
board discussions and decision making.
Investment into transition growth  engines
Following extensive board discussions with members of the bp 
leadership team, the board approved the strategic progress update announced in February 2023 at the time of full-year results (see
 
more on page 90  of the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2022 ). 
Further
 
to the board’s decision in February 2023 to invest up 
to $8
 
billion more into our transition growth engines by 2030, three 
significant investment decisions were made by the board in 2023: 
Convenience and mobility
In February 2023 bp agreed to purchase TravelCenters of America for $1.3 billion, adding around 290 sites to our retail network, strategically located on major highways across the US – complementing bp’s US convenience and mobility offering and combining conventional fuel sales with a significant convenience offer
 
and the potential to integrate EV charging, biofuels, renewable 
natural gas and in time hydrogen mobility.
Wind
In July 2023 bp was awarded the rights to develop two offshore wind
 
projects in Germany, marking bp’s entry into offshore wind in 
continental Europe. The power from the wind farms is expected to be
 
used to support bp’s green hydrogen  and biofuels production , 
electric mobility growth and refinery decarbonization, as well as wider industry decarbonization in Germany. bp expects to connect them to the grid by the end of 2030.
Solar
In November 2023 bp announced that it had agreed to acquire the non-bp-owned share of Lightsource bp, one of the leading global utility-scale solar and battery storage developers, providing low-cost green electrons at scale in service of bp’s hydrogen, biofuels, EV charging and power trading. Subject to regulatory approvals, the
 
deal is expected to close in the second half of 2024.
Stakeholders considered
Customers
Governments and regulatorsInvestors and shareholdersPartners and suppliersWorkforceSociety
In considering the decisions outlined above, the board assessed a 
range of risks and opportunities across multiple stakeholder groups. Responding to what governments and customers ask of bp, the board advanced towards our net zero ambition by investment in our transition growth engines and also our resilient hydrocarbons. 
Partners and suppliers will benefit from the three transactions 
outlined
 
above as they provide greater certainty of dealing with bp 
as
 
a
 
counterparty, whilst also helping to de-risk and underpin 
delivery
 
of bp’s related 2025 targets, for the benefit of the workforce 
and
 
customers. Appointment of new chief executive officer (CEO) 
and
 
chief financial officer (CFO) 
The robustness of our governance framework and emergency 
succession plans enabled the board to take swift action following the resignation of bp’s former CEO in September 2023. 
Agility
The board met immediately after the former CEO confirmed his resignation from the board. The activation of our emergency succession plans allowed for the board to promptly appoint Murray Auchincloss as interim CEO, providing reassurance to our investors and our own people. 
Leadership pipeline
Evidencing the strength and depth of our senior-level leadership, and the rigour of the talent review process which underpins our succession planning, Kate Thomson was appointed as bp interim CFO within a
 
week of the former CEO’s resignation. In this interim role, Kate 
demonstrated strong finance leadership and deep knowledge of the
 
sector in her delivery, confirming for the board her suitability 
for
 
the
 
role of permanent CFO.
Dedicated committee
A new committee of the board was established on an interim basis to
 
lead the process for the selection of our new CEO, comprising the 
chair and three non-executive directors. The committee recommended candidates which the full board considered for appointment. Read more on page 97 .
Role expectations
The committee agreed the primary accountabilities and leadership qualities for the new CEO to deliver against, providing a clear foundation on which to build the search. 
Rigorous process
A thorough and highly competitive search exercise supported by international search advisors included detailed consideration of a wide
 
and diverse range of candidates, both internal and external to bp. 
Stakeholders considered
Customers
Investors and shareholdersPartners and suppliersWorkforce
Meetings were arranged with investors, the workforce and key 
partners over several days immediately following the former CEO’s resignation to enable transparent dialogue. This valuable engagement helped inform the board during the permanent CEO and CFO succession process.
As part of its decision making, the board took account of stakeholder 
views and impact in appointing new executive directors. The board unanimously agreed that Murray Auchincloss was the right leader to help drive bp’s strategy and create value and that Kate Thomson would further strengthen the board as CFO.Read more on Section 172, page 93

90
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Board activities
During 2023, the board and  
its committees had regular 
scheduled meetings and held additional meetings on an   
ad hoc basis, as required by business needs.
Board meeting agendas are typically agreed 
in advance by the chair, chief executive officer (CEO) and company secretary, framed around four pillars – strategy, performance, people and governance. 
The information provided below sets out some 
of the board’s activities across each of these pillars during 2023. These activities were supported by the committees of the board where appropriate, with committee chairs providing update reports at board meetings. Strategy
Strategic direction 
• D iscussed strategic progress at each board 
meeting, including business development updates and deep-dives into our five transition growth
 engines to help embed 
a shared understanding of the business, market context, capital allocation and profitability over time.
•
 A
pproved the strategic progress update 
announced in February 2023 that included an update on how we expect to achieve our short- to medium-term pathway to deliver our net zero production
 aim (aim 2) 
(see  page  
49). 
Macroeconomics 
• R eceived regular updates on the effect of 
the
 
evolving macroeconomic environment 
on our strategy throughout the year.  
Mergers and acquisitions pipeline  
•
 A
pproved the purchase of TravelCenters 
of America in February 2023, which brings growth opportunities for four of our five transition growth engines: convenience, EV charging, biofuels/renewable natural gas (bioenergy) and, later, hydrogen (see  page
 
20). 
•
 A
pproved the acquisition of the non-bp- 
owned share of Lightsource bp in November 2023, which is expected to help underpin and de-risk delivery of bp’s targets for its transition growth engines – in hydrogen, EV charging and biofuels as well as in power trading (see page
 
23). 
Investor update 
• R eviewed materials for the October 2023 
investor presentations on the company’s plans and expectations for our oil and gas and biogas businesses (see page
 
93).
Safety and sustainability 
• R eviewed ongoing safety, sustainability, 
project and operational performance throughout the year.
Meeting colleagues at bp’s Canary Wharf office in London, UK St James’ Square Town hall, London, UKPerformance
Annual plan
• R eviewed and approved the 2023 plan, which 
focused on capital allocation investments into oil and gas assets, and our transition growth engines, while continuing to strengthen the balance sheet. 
• R eviewed full-year delivery against the 
2022 plan and monitored delivery against the
 
2023 plan.
Financial frame and distributions
• R eviewed options for enhancing and 
simplifying the financial frame. 
•
 C
onsidered transition risks and 
opportunities as part of the review of
 
the
 
financial frame. 
• R eviewed distributions to shareholders each 
quarter, consistent with the financial frame.
•
 A
pproved share buyback proposals together 
with 10% increases to our dividend per ordinary share for 4Q 2022 and 2Q 2023. 
Capital expenditure  
• R eceived a business update from the CEO 
at every board meeting. Updates covered projects across all of bp’s businesses and, where appropriate, specific climate-related considerations. 
• T he CEO’s updates included any inorganic 
or
 
divestment opportunities of more than 
$100 million, or which would represent a
 
new
 
strategic business. 
•
 A
pproved entering the German offshore wind 
market with a 4GW auction win in July 2023, where the renewable power generated is expected to help enable us to leverage integration opportunities with green hydrogen
, EV mobility and power trading 
as we build the business. 
• R eviews and reserves for its approval 
all
 
resilient hydrocarbon investment 
opportunities above $3 billion and all other transition and low carbon investment opportunities above $1 billion. Key
Information that supports TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in relation to Governance (see  page 55 )

91
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Acquisition reviews 
• A ssessed the integration of Archaea Energy.  
•
 R
eviewed development pipelines and 
broader business priorities. 
Principal risks
• R eviewed trends and themes arising from 
risk management reports. 
•
 R
eviewed bp’s principal and emerging risks 
twice in 2023, including those related to 
climate and the impact of geopolitical and macroeconomic developments on the pace of the energy transition (see page
 
74).  
Internal controls
• A ssessed the effectiveness of the group’s 
system of internal control and risk management as part of the review and approval of the bp Annual Report and Form  20-F.  No specific areas of concern were 
identified in this assessment and the board concluded that the group’s system of internal control and risk management continued to be resilient and fit for purpose, and that the system generally meets external expectations of components to be included in internal control frameworks. In arriving at these conclusions, the board took into account reports from group risk and internal audit, as well as deep-dive presentations and business reviews undertaken by the board and its committees during the year (see how we manage risk on page 73 and bp’s system of internal control on page
 
134).People
Engagement
• P articipated in the workforce engagement 
programme (WFEP), providing for board decisions to be better informed by the feedback received (see page
 
92).
•
 T
hrough WFEP, met high-potential 
employees to help improve their visibility with directors.
•
 H
eld town halls in a number of countries 
during 2023 and undertook site visits to increase directors’ direct interaction with the
 
workforce (see page  
92).
Succession
• S upported by the people and governance 
committee, the board received updates and
 
considered the composition, skills, 
experience and diversity of the board, as
 
well
 
as that of the bp leadership team. 
•
 A
ppointed the interim committee of the 
board that led the search process for bp’s new CEO (see page
 
97). 
Culture
• R eviewed feedback from the ‘Pulse annual’ 
employee surveys, agreeing actions and initiatives in response.
•
 T
he WFEP involved a number of sessions on 
bp’s ‘Who we are’ culture frame, to receive employees’ perspectives on bp’s culture.
•
 R
eviewed the annual ethics and compliance 
report, the function’s priorities and objectives, including reviewing changes to
 
the code of conduct and the associated 
proposed roll-out programme.
•
 E
stablished a new interim board committee 
to gain insights into the implementation of the ‘Who we are’ culture frame (see page
 
97).
Diversity
• A pproved an updated board diversity,  
equity and inclusion policy referencing  the requirements of the UK Listing Rules  (see page
 
96).Governance
Board composition
• A pproved the appointment of Satish Pai 
and Hina Nagarajan as independent non-executive directors with effect from 1 March 2023.
•
 A
ctivated emergency succession process 
for
 
the role of CEO and CFO, with a decision 
to approve Murray Auchincloss as interim CEO on 12 September 2023. Approval of the appointment of Kate Thomson as interim CFO followed on 19 September 2023.
•
 A
pproved the appointments of Murray 
Auchincloss as CEO on 17 January 2024 and
 
Kate Thomson as CFO and board 
member on 2 February 2024.
Director training
• C ompleted online training on matters 
including ethics and compliance and digital security.
•
 A
ttended deep-dive knowledge sessions 
during 2023, including a teach-in on liquefied natural gas. 
•
 I
ndividual non-executive directors attended 
one-to-one training sessions with senior members of the bp management team.
Board effectiveness review
• C onducted an internally facilitated evaluation 
of the board under the leadership of the chair and the people and governance committee (see page 95 ).
Investor engagement
• U ndertook extensive investor engagement 
throughout the year (see page 92 ).
Corporate governance framework
• O perated in accordance with the governance 
framework established in 2020 (see page
 
88).
•
 C
onsidered the FRC’s proposed reforms as 
part of their 2023 consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Site visit to our Bingo facility in the Permian Basin, US Douglas House Town hall, London, UK 

92
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Our stakeholders
Investors and shareholders
Debt and equity investors are key stakeholders 
through their provision of finance and stewardship. Regular and constructive dialogue is important to hear their views, communicate bp’s strategy and to build and maintain confidence in our ability to deliver it. 
Directors engaged with investors via roadshows, 
quarterly results calls, presentations and the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Individual and group investor engagement meetings were held with the chair of the board and chair of the remuneration committee, who shared feedback with the wider board. Other committee chairs were available to investors as needed throughout the year. Feedback and insights from a meeting with retail holders via the UK Shareholder Association and ShareSoc were incorporated into a briefing for directors. Directors also discussed with management the implications of investor studies and surveys. 
Customers
Customer interests are at the forefront of bp’s strategy, whether end-use consumers, B2B customers or distributors. Focusing on customers provides the driving force for new business models and service platforms.
Directors visited retail sites
 including an EV 
charging location at one of our Aral sites in 
Düsseldorf, Germany, to gain insights into the customer experience. Other director visits included a safety review at one of our Hammersmith retail sites in London, supporting bp’s commitment to put safety first. Workforce
The board recognizes the value gained from engaging with bp’s workforce. Regular engagement with members of the workforce helps bp attract, develop and retain talent. 
The workforce engagement programme (WFEP) 
is the board’s formal engagement mechanism, which is considered effective in complying with Provision 5 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). Its effectiveness is reviewed annually by the people and governance committee (see pages 94-95 ). 
Beyond the WFEP, directors undertook site visits, town hall events and webcasts and a programme of meetings with high-potential employees. Engagements included a visit to the
 
Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany and 
Castellón refinery in Spain. ‘Pulse annual’ employee survey results and summary ‘Open Talk’ reports (bp’s whistleblowing service, meeting Provision 6 of the Code) were also reviewed by the board.
Additional engagement centred on culture was 
undertaken by directors in 2023 via a specific committee, adding to bp’s activities meeting Provision 2 of the Code (see page 97 ). 
Governments and regulators
Engagement with governments and regulators is important in upholding the legal and reputational standing of bp and enables the business to better contribute and respond to
 
emerging standards. 
In addition to reviewing regulatory updates in
 
2023, including proposed UK audit and 
corporate governance reforms, directors attended global political and economic events such as the Business 20 (B20) Summit and the
 
World Economic Forum. Throughout 2023 
board members met with government officials from Norway, Kuwait, Germany, Egypt and Spain amongst other nations. This included an event with over 250 officials, diplomats and regulatory agencies at bp’s Washington DC office in the US.
Partners and suppliers
Strong relationships with partners and suppliers are important to support business opportunities. Engagement with them helps bp meet our customers’ needs today and in the future.
The chief executive officer and chief financial 
officer have regular meetings with key suppliers. Directors have attended partner-hosted events in 2023, such as the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference (ADIPEC), with a focus on bp’s strategic priorities in both resilient hydrocarbons and low carbon energy. 
Society
Through our business operations, we seek to benefit the people, businesses and environment in the communities we operate in, which span 61 countries. We also rely on wider society as potential customers, partners and employees.
As well as the consideration of geopolitical 
events, board members engaged with communities local to bp operations, for example when visiting Tangguh, Indonesia. Directors also
 
received updates on research activities 
to
 
understand society’s energy needs, ranging 
from industrial fluids for robotics and wind at Castrol’s headquarters, to a visit to the Global Applied Science Centre in Bochum, Germany.Throughout 2023 directors engaged with a broad range of stakeholders collectively and individually, 
through different activities and channels, across a wide geographical reach. 
Spotlight on safety and 
sustainability
Directors gained valuable insights  
from engagements with a wide range  of stakeholders during the safety and sustainability committee’s visit to our major liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility in Tangguh,
 
West Papua, Indonesia.
Safety and sustainability committee report, page 104
Tangguh, West Papua, Indonesia

93
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373How the board has had regard to Section 172 factors
The table below provides information on how the directors have had regard to the factors set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Other examples can be found under key decisions made by the board on page 89 .
Section 172 factor Key examples
The likely consequences of any  
decisions in the long-termAll board decisions are made within a governance framework which supports the delivery 
of
 
bp’s
 
strategy, designed to consider and promote the long-term success of the company. 
Read more on our governance framework on page 88 and our strategy and business model on pages 12-17 . 
Interests of employees In 2023 members of the board engaged with employees in jurisdictions including Australia, Germany, Spain, the UK and US as part of the workforce engagement programme.
Topics covered included safety, culture, remuneration, talent attraction and retention and factors 
affecting the company’s performance and strategy.
Read more on our people on pages 70-72 .
Fostering the company’s business  
relationships with suppliers,  customers and othersAs part of the board’s structured calendar, reports from the ethics and compliance team on 
partner and supplier issues are received on an annual basis. In 2023 the audit committee and safety and sustainability committee held a joint meeting with members of bp’s non-operated joint ventures solutions leadership team, discussing risks and opportunities in this part of our business.
Read more on our strategy and business model on pages 12-17 . 
Impact of operations on the community  
and the environmentThe board established bp’s purpose of reimagining energy for people and our planet, its net zero 
ambition and its sustainability frame, which has three components – net zero, caring for our planet and improving people’s lives 
Through the board’s activities to satisfy itself that this purpose is aligned with bp’s culture, the 
directors have continued to be active contributors to internal and external discussions which support bp’s strategy and net zero people and planet aims. 
Read more on the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities on pages 55-66 .
Read more on sustainability: improving people’s lives, page 53 , and caring for our planet on 
page
 
54.
Maintaining a reputation for high  
standards of business conductThe board is responsible for bp’s code of conduct, which sets expectations and standards for 
doing the right thing. The code guides business decisions from the front line to the boardroom and every member of the board is held to account against the standards set out in our code. 
Read more on sustainability: ethics and compliance, page 72 . 
Acting fairly between members  
of the companyDuring 2023 the board met with a wide range of shareholders, engaging with both retail and institutional holders, including at the AGM. Valuable feedback was considered on a broad range of topics including governance, remuneration and strategy. 
Investor update
In October 2023, bp held an 
investor update, inviting analysts and investors to our offices in Denver, followed by a guided tour of some of bpx energy’s Permian Basin operations. This included Bingo, our second central processing facility, where oil is separated from water and impurities. Topics covered included safety, our 2025 targets and 2030 aims, with breakout sessions focused on oil, gas, LNG, base performance and resources and capital productivity. 
bp.com/investorsCustomer centricity 
in
 b
p pulse
As part of the workforce 
engagement programme, directors met with 10 members of the bp pulse team to gain insights into customer centricity. Attendees reflected that
 
there had been 
improvements in psychological safety as
 
a
 
result of greater clarity 
on strategy and structure. They also shared a desire to focus on simplicity moving forward and discussed the challenges faced in data integration. 
Investor update in Denver, USbp pulse  launch event,  
Birmingham, UK

94
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023People and governance committee
Workforce engagement programme
Under the board’s workforce engagement 
programme (WFEP), every non-executive director attends at least one session each year where they hear directly from 10-12 individuals from a section of the workforce. 
To better inform the board’s discussions 
and decision making, the themes of the WFEP sessions were directly aligned with the board’s agenda for 2023. During the year, directors met with colleagues from our offshore wind team, the gas & low carbon energy business group, the US retail operating organization, Archaea Energy, bp pulse  and our hydrogen businesses 
in the UK, Australia and Germany. 
Participants shared insights on customers, 
competitors and the energy transition, and views on bp’s strategy, technology, market challenges, ways of working and culture. An anonymized summary of each session was reviewed by the committee, and key themes shared with the board. 
In 2023 the committee also reviewed 
the workforce engagement mechanism and deemed the WFEP appropriate for the activities and structure of bp. 
Meetings and attendance
The committee met five times in 2023. The EVP people & culture regularly attended the meetings. 
Non-executive directorsFive  
 scheduled 
meetings
Helge Lund: member (July 2018), chair of the committee (September 2018) 5/5
Dame Amanda Blanc: membera4/5
Paula Rosput Reynolds: member 5/5
Sir John Sawers: member 5/5
a D ame Amanda was unable to attend the meeting in November due to a pre-existing commitment which the committee was 
notified of upon her appointment. She received accompanying material and had the opportunity to provide comments to 
the committee. Chair’s introductionThe committee’s major areas of focus 
in 2023 were succession planning, executive and non
-e
xecutive, as well as 
overseeing management’s embedding of our ‘Who we are’ culture frame.
Dear fellow shareholders,
2023 was a particularly active year for the 
committee. The committee’s major areas of
 
focus in 2023 were succession planning, 
executive and non -e
xecutive, as well as 
overseeing management’s embedding of our
 
‘Who we are’ culture frame, which 
encompasses bp’s values and behaviours. 
Executive succession plans were reviewed 
during the year, covering not only succession options and development plans for the bp leadership team, but also emerging talent throughout the organization. Given the importance the board attaches to ensuring a strong pipeline of future leaders, the committee oversaw the launch of a new leadership development programme. This programme provides structured development opportunities for all employees, but focuses in particular on those with high executive potential, while also helping to advance our diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) ambitions.
The committee reviewed bp’s people-related 
priorities for 2023, which included the roll-out of
 
the company’s ‘Who we are’ culture frame, 
and further enhancing workforce engagement to better inform board-level debate and decisions. Read more on page 95 . Looking ahead to 2024, the committee’s focus will remain on executive succession, the gradual refreshing of the board as non-executives reach the end of their tenure, and initiatives to develop and enhance bp’s culture. 
The committee’s review of the effectiveness 
and further embedding of the ‘Who we are’ culture frame will provide valuable qualitative data about the company’s culture and areas where further focus is required. 
Role of the committee
The committee seeks to ensure that the composition and structure of the board remains effective and also monitors the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required. The process for the nomination, induction and orderly succession of candidates for the board, the leadership team and the company secretary role are led by the committee, as is the annual review of the board’s performance. 
Key responsibilities
The committee’s full terms of reference can be
 
viewed at bp.com/governance .
Helge Lund 
Committee chair8 March 2024

95
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Activities during the year 
Succession planning
Board succession planning
• R eviewed during the year the tenure, skills, 
experience and diversity of the existing board 
members and the succession plans for non-executive directors, including succession for the roles of senior independent director and chair of the remuneration committee. 
•
 F
ollowing these reviews, the committee 
agreed the criteria for two roles to bolster the
 
experience and interests of the board, 
covering industry, operational, manufacturing and remuneration experience, with a focus on representation from our key markets.
•
 E
ngaged MWM Consulting and Spencer 
Stuart in support of search activity for new board candidates, while the chief executive officer (CEO) succession committee engaged Egon Zehnder in support of the company’s search for a CEO
a. Read more 
about the CEO succession committee on page
 
97.
Executive succession planning
• R eviewed the leadership team succession 
planning scenarios over the short, medium and long-term, mapping the key skills and experience required to fulfil these positions for the continued implementation of bp’s strategy and net zero ambition. 
 The 
robustness and effectiveness of the committee’s emergency succession plans were evidenced by the swift appointments of Murray Auchincloss as interim CEO and Kate Thomson as interim chief financial officer (CFO) following the resignation of the former CEO in September 2023. Read more on Murray’s appointment as CEO on page
 
97. 
•
 L
eadership team succession planning is 
underpinned by a comprehensive talent review process. In being recognized as a succession candidate for the role of CFO, Kate Thomson underwent a rigorous evaluation, including an external third-party assessment, to identify the skills and qualities she could bring to an executive role. Following her appointment as interim CFO in September 2023, Kate demonstrated strong finance leadership confirming her suitability for the role of CFO and executive director of the board. •
 R
eviewed the launch of new bp-wide 
leadership development initiatives, including a new programme with INSEAD aimed at supporting the progression of leaders with high-potential. The programme included specific pathways to promote diverse talent.
•
 O
versaw the development of high-
performing individuals to accelerate the development of the skills needed to drive forward bp’s transition. 
Culture 
‘Who we are’ 
 
• R eceived updates on how initiatives were 
contributing to embedding the ‘Who we are’ 
culture frame. 
•
 R
eviewed feedback received through the 
employee ‘Pulse annual’ employee survey. 
•
 F
or information on the committee set up on 
an interim basis in 2023 to focus on culture oversight, see page
 
97.
Workforce engagement 
• R eceived reports on workforce engagement 
sessions and reviewed the effectiveness of the engagement mechanism. Read more on
 
page  
94. 
•
 R
eviewed the results of the company’s 
employee ‘Pulse annual’ employee survey and monitored progress against a defined set of ‘Who we are’ measures. These measures, underpinned by insights from the
 
‘Pulse annual’ employee survey, provided 
the committee with measurable insight into the adoption of bp’s ‘Who we are’ culture frame and assisted the committee in understanding the sentiment of bp’s workforce. 
Board performance 
Looking back on 2022 
• R eviewed progress on previously agreed 
actions, including to improve the board’s 
effectiveness and efficiency by reviewing pre-read templates to support prioritization of the board’s focus areas and a refresh of forward calendar planning to optimise board members’ time commitment. 
•
 T
he actions identified by the board in 
concluding the prior year’s performance were reviewed during 2023. Good progress has been made against these actions as evidenced by 2023’s board review.
•
 I
n light of the three-year evaluation cycle, the 
committee decided that the 2023 evaluation be facilitated internally, with the next external review anticipated in 2024. 
2023 board performance review 
• T he chair and company secretary led the 
internal evaluation of the board and its committees. This was supported by the use of a digital platform to better capture and organize feedback and to define and track identified actions. The chair and company secretary also held one-to-one meetings with each non-executive director which covered their individual performance. 
•
 A re
view of Murray’s performance as interim 
CEO was led by the chair, with input from the senior independent director. 
•
 T
he chair’s performance review was led 
by 
the senior independent director.
•
 F
eedback was consolidated and presented  
to the board in early 2024. The 2023 performance review concluded that the board and its committees continue to operate effectively. Alongside the ongoing renewal of the board to ensure it has the right balance of skills, experience and diversity to oversee the company’s strategy and its execution, the review highlighted some actions to further enhance its effectiveness during 2024. With the appointment of Murray Auchincloss as the new permanent CEO in January 2024, the board will support his development and effectiveness, driving shareholder value and a further commitment to its oversight of bp’s purpose and culture frame. Among the actions identified by the review, a detailed programme of strategy discussions to be held during 2024 is planned to help optimise capital investment proposals in an evolving macro environment. 
Learning, development and induction
Induction
• O n appointment, all directors receive a 
formal induction, tailored to their individual 
needs, skills and experience and which takes
 
account of any committees they join. 
•
 I
n March 2023 Hina Nagarajan and Satish 
Pai were appointed as independent non-executive directors to the board, as well as
 
to
 
the audit committee and safety and 
sustainability committee respectively, with induction programmes provided in advance of and following their appointments.
•
 T
hese inductions included one-to-one 
meetings with members of the board and leadership team and with select members of
 
senior management. 
•
 F
eedback is sought from directors 
undertaking their induction programmes to ensure they are continually updated and improved. 
Training and development  
• B eyond directors’ initial induction, ongoing 
training and development is provided during the routine programme of meetings and board visits (e.g. the audit committee’s visit to the security operations centre, where members learned first-hand about the operations of our digital security team). 
a N one of the search agents have any connection with the company or individual directors, save that Egon Zehnder provides advice and support on bp’s executive development programme and 
Spencer Stuart supports on executive recruitment.Key
Information that supports TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in relation to Governance (see  page 55 )

96
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023People and governance committee continued
• T raining is delivered through targeted 
knowledge sessions with internal or external 
subject-matter experts as well as online courses, with reading material provided through our secure board portal. 
•
 D
uring 2023 board members undertook 
online training on cyber security and ethics and compliance, including bp’s code of conduct. A knowledge session was also provided by bp’s trading & shipping business to certain directors. 
Diversity 
The board believes that, to deliver on our purpose and strategy, we must foster diversity of thought. 
Diversity of the board  
• T he 2023 board DE&I policy was approved 
and recommended for adoption by the board at its meeting in February 2023.
•
 T
he DE&I policy included revisions to 
recognize broader forms of diversity and a
 
commitment by the board to undertake 
DE&I training and development initiatives. 
•
 T
he revised DE&I policy set, as a minimum, 
targets of at least 40% female representation on the board, at least one senior board position held by a woman and at least one
 
member of the board from an ethnic 
minority background.
•
 T
he DE&I policy:
–
 a
pplies to the board and its committees 
and requires all aspects of diversity to be considered when reviewing composition, skills, experience and the overall balance of the board and its committees.– a ims to achieve better decision making 
and outcomes by bringing together people with differences of opinion and background, but who share a common ambition.
–
 c
omplements bp’s wider diversity 
policies and the group’s values, code of
 
conduct and sustainability frame. 
Read
 
more at bp.com/governance .
•
 A
ppointments to the board during 2023 and 
up to the date of publication of this report considered the objectives of the DE&I policy and, as a result, our female representation in senior board positions has doubled and our ethnic minority representation on the board has tripled since 2022.
•
 A
s at 31 December 2023, the board 
exceeded the UK Listing Rules diversity benchmark targets, since more than 40% of
 
the board are women, including our senior 
independent director, and three of our directors identify as being from a minority ethnic background (see page
 
133). bp’s 
progress was also recognized in the FTSE Women Leaders Review: Achieving Gender Balance, published in February 2024.
Diversity of senior leaders  
• T he committee oversees executive 
succession planning and monitors its alignment with bp’s DE&I ambitions and strategy. 
•
 A
s at 31 December 2023, the composition 
of senior management, defined as the leadership team (being the first layer of management below board level) and the company secretary, in accordance with the 
Skills matrix
Background and experience 
Energy 
marketsOperational 
excellence 
and risk 
managementGlobal 
business 
leadership 
and 
governanceTechnology, 
digital and 
innovationClimate 
change and 
sustainabilityPeople 
leadership and 
organizational 
transformationSociety, 
politics and 
geopoliticsFinance, 
risk and 
trading
Non-executive directors
Dame Amanda Blanc
Pamela Daley
Helge Lund
Melody Meyer
Tushar Morzaria 
Hina Nagarajan
Satish Pai
Paula Rosput Reynolds
Karen Richardson
Sir John Sawers
Johannes Teyssen
For further detail on the directors’ climate change and sustainability experience, see the TCFD section on page  56, and for the directors’ biographies 
see page  
83.UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, and 
their direct reports comprised 51% women (2022 51%) and 26% Black, Asian and ethnic minority individuals (2022 25%). 
•
 T
he committee oversees the work 
undertaken by management to support career progression of under-represented groups in a sector that has historically been male-dominated with limited diversity in other forms.
•
 T
he board is cognisant of the Parker Review 
objective for companies to set targets to 2027 for ethnic minority representation at
 
senior management level. We have set 
diversity ambitions to 2025, which include our ambitions to achieve:–
 3
0% of our group and senior leader 
roles
 
in the US held by individuals 
from
 
an
 
ethnic minority background. 
–
 1
5% of our group and senior leader 
roles
 
in the UK held by individuals 
from
 
an
 
ethnic minority background.
•
 F
or numerical data on the ethnic background 
and gender identity or sex of bp’s board and executive management, in line with the UK Listing Rules, see page
 
133.
Diversity of the workforce  
• D E&I remains a key part of bp’s people 
strategy. 
•
 T
he board is supportive of bp’s employee-led 
business resource groups, which provide forums for employees to obtain support and networking opportunities around specific themes such as ethnicity, sexual orientation and social mobility (see page
 
71).

97
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373In 2023 two additional interim committees 
were
 
established. More detail on their roles 
and
 
key responsibilities can be found below. 
CEO succession committee 
The board met immediately after the former CEO resigned in September 2023. Our existing succession plans were activated and the board appointed Murray Auchincloss as interim CEO within a few hours. Demonstrating the strength of our senior-level leadership and the rigour of our emergency succession plans, Kate Thomson was appointed as interim CFO  one week later. 
Following this, a new board committee was 
formed on an interim basis, focused on the selection of the next CEO. The committee led a
 
thorough and highly competitive process for 
the identification, selection and appointment to
 
the board of bp’s next CEO. Helge Lund 
was
 
committee chair, with Amanda Blanc, 
Tushar Morzaria and Johannes Teyssen committee members.
The committee had a clear remit including 
the
 
workstreams leading to the appointment 
of
 
the CEO. A project plan was agreed and the 
timeframe and delivery of key workstreams were monitored.
With inputs from the board, the committee 
agreed the role profile and the proposed hiring approach, which included, but was not limited to, psychometric testing, interview and candidate submission content. This approach was then confirmed with the chosen
 
search firm, Egon Zehnder.
Over a period of four months, the committee met regularly and interviewed a range of high-calibre internal and external candidates. Following robust due diligence on each candidate, the committee recommended a shortlist to be interviewed by the full board.
The process resulted in the board’s unanimous 
agreement that Murray Auchincloss was the best candidate and the right leader for bp. Read
 
more in the chair’s letter on page 4 .‘Who we are’ oversight committee 
The ‘Who we are’ oversight committee was established on an interim basis by the board in
 
2023, to gain insight into management’s 
progress towards embedding bp’s ‘Who we are’ culture frame, with a specific emphasis on psychological safety and speaking up. 
The committee reviewed management’s 
approach to measuring bp’s culture, including the analysis of ‘Pulse live’ and ‘Pulse annual’ employee surveys of cross-sections of bp’s workforce and comparative benchmark data, as
 
well as external best practice. Additionally, 
the committee considered the effectiveness of the company’s code of conduct and associated policies and guidelines and the operation of the company’s confidential speak-up programme. bp’s people & culture and ethics and compliance management supported the committee’s work and attended meetings. 
The work of the committee was supplemented 
by individual engagement sessions with different parts of the workforce to hear directly about issues of relevance to the measurement of bp’s culture. Our existing workforce engagement programme described on page
 
94 
provided the ideal framework for this, with engagement sessions focused on culture which
 
have supported the committee’s work. 
The committee’s activities have informed the board’s assessment and monitoring of culture. Its work will additionally help to facilitate how the views of the workforce are considered in board discussions and decision-making. It is expected that the responsibilities of the ‘Who we are’ oversight committee will be absorbed by the people and governance committee. 
Chaired by Helge Lund, the committee met 
twice in 2023. The other committee members were Amanda Blanc, Melody Meyer and Paula Rosput Reynolds.

98
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Dear fellow shareholders, 
I am pleased to present the committee’s report 
for the year ended 31 December 2023.
The challenging macro environment and energy 
market volatility have been areas of focus for the committee this year, with close attention paid to energy price assumptions and the ongoing suitability of discount rates for impairment testing. The committee has regularly scrutinized key accounting issues and
 
judgements made by management to 
monitor and assess the continued integrity of
 
the group’s financial reporting. Read more 
on
 
page  
99.
The committee has monitored the approach and scope of the group’s non-financial reporting framework, taking into account evolving environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting. It also receives regular updates from management on the wider control environment, such as the controls in place for financial reporting, and examines the progress of remediating any deficiencies with input from bp’s internal audit team and our external auditor, Deloitte. 
The committee reviewed and monitored 
the
 
principal risks allocated to it by the board 
for
 
2023, through a combination of business 
reviews and focused engagements, as well as regular updates from management, internal audit and Deloitte. Read more on page
 
102.Engaging with bp’s workforce is important to us, and we were pleased to spend time with the accounting, reporting and control and internal audit teams in our technology and business centre in bp’s Sunbury, UK office. Read more on page
 
101. The committee continues to engage 
with other stakeholders where appropriate, including regulatory inspections when they occur.
Role of the committee
The committee monitors the effectiveness of
 
the group’s financial reporting, including 
ESG
 
and climate-related financial disclosures, 
systems of internal control and risk management. It also monitors the integrity of the group’s external and internal audit processes. 
Key responsibilities
A summary of the committee’s terms of reference is on page  359 and the full terms of 
reference can be viewed at bp.com/governance . 
This report describes how bp has approached compliance with the provisions of the FRC’s Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard.
Tushar Morzaria
Committee chair8 March 2024Audit committee
Meetings and attendance
The committee met nine times in 2023. Regular attendees included the chief financial officer (CFO), 
SVP accounting, reporting and control, SVP internal audit, EVP legal, and the external auditor.
Non-executive directorsEight  
 scheduled 
meetingsOne  
ad hoc 
meeting
Tushar Morzaria: member (September 2020), chair of the committee (May 2021) 8/8 1/1
Pamela Daleya: member 8/8 0/1
Paula Rosput Reynolds: member 8/8 1/1
Karen Richardson: member 8/8 1/1
Hina Nagarajan: member (March 2023) 7/ 7 1/1
a  O ne ad hoc meeting was arranged during December. As it took place outside of the scheduled committee calendar, which is 
agreed far in advance, Pamela was unable to attend due to a prior commitment. She received accompanying material and had 
the opportunity to provide comments to the committee. Financial expertise
The board is satisfied that:
•
 T
ushar Morzaria, the chair of the 
committee, has recent and relevant 
financial experience as required by the UK
 
Corporate Governance Code 2018 
and
 
that he is competent in accounting 
and auditing in accordance with the FCA’s
 
Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules.
•
 T
he committee has an appropriate and 
experienced blend of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address, as well as competence in the oil and gas sector.
•
 A
s a US foreign private issuer, the 
committee meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and 
Tushar Morzaria can be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Chair’s introductionThe committee has regularly scrutinized 
key accounting issues and judgements made by management to monitor and assess the continued integrity of the group’s financial reporting.

99
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Activities during the year
Financial reporting and assurance  
• M onitored the integrity of and reviewed the 
quarterly, half-year and annual financial 
statements and supporting materials, including key accounting judgements, and discussed these with management and the external auditor.
•
 R
eviewed and challenged the application and 
appropriateness of significant accounting policies and financial reporting judgements, concluding that the financial statements appropriately addressed the key accounting judgements and estimates in respect of both the amounts reported and disclosures made. Examples are set out in the table below. 
•
 R
eviewed the affordability of proposed 
distributions (dividends and share buybacks) under bp’s financial frame as part of the quarterly results process and reported to the board on the outcome of that review.•
 R
eviewed the company’s going concern 
assumption and longer-term viability statement. Determined and recommended to the board that it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting and the longer-term viability of the company in accordance with Provision 31 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. Read more on page 135 .
• 
 D
iscussed and challenged financial reporting 
and internal controls processes and reviewed any control gaps identified and mitigating actions. Read more under the internal controls section on page
 
102.
•
 R
eceived a report from management on the 
verification process undertaken in respect of the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F , including 
non-financial disclosures such as the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
Examples of how key accounting 
judgements and
 
estimates were 
considered and addressed, and how relevant accounting policies have been
 
appliedAudit committee activity Conclusions/outcomes
Impact of climate change and the energy transition 
Climate change and the transition to a lower 
carbon economy may have significant impacts on the currently reported amounts of the group’s assets and liabilities, and on similar assets and liabilities that may be recognized  in
 
the future.•  R eviewed management’s assumptions 
relating
 
to impairment testing, recoverability 
of
 
exploration assets and decommissioning 
provisions. Read more below.
•
 R
eviewed how management’s revised 
best
 
estimate of oil and natural gas prices 
are
 
in line with a range of transition paths 
consistent with the goals of the Paris climate change agreement.•
  M anagement’s revised best estimate of oil 
and natural gas prices are in line with a range of transition paths consistent with the goals of the Paris climate change agreement. 
•
 R
ead more in Note 1 regarding how bp 
applies carbon pricing in its impairment testing, sensitivity analyses estimating effects of changes in net revenue and
 
changes in the expected timing 
of 
decommissioning.
Provisions
The group holds provisions primarily 
for 
decommissioning, environmental  
remediation   and litigation. 
The most significant provision is for the future
 
decommissioning of oil and natural gas 
production facilities and pipelines. Estimation uncertainty exists as most of these events are many years in the future. Assumptions are made by bp in relation to cost estimation, settlement dates, technology, legal requirements and discount rates. There is also a risk that decommissioning obligations from previously divested assets revert to bp.•
 R
eceived briefings on decommissioning 
(including the process for managing the risk of
 decommissioning reversion), environmental, 
asbestos and litigation provisions. These included the requirements, governance and controls for the development and approval of
 
cost estimates and provisions in the 
financial statements. 
•
 R
eviewed and challenged the group’s discount 
rates for calculating provisions.•
 D
ecommissioning provisions of $12.4 billion 
were recognized on the balance sheet at 31 December 2023. 
• 
 T
he discount rate used by bp to determine 
the balance sheet obligation at the end of 2023 was a nominal rate of 4%, based on long-dated US government bonds; an increase of 0.5% from 2022.
Recoverability of asset carrying values
Determination as to whether and how much 
an asset, cash generating unit (CGU) or group of CGUs containing goodwill is impaired involves management judgement and estimates on uncertain matters such as future commodity prices, discount rates, production profiles, reserves and the impact of inflation on operating expenses. 
Judgement is also required to determine 
whether it is appropriate to continue to carry intangible assets related to exploration costs on the balance sheet. •
 R
eviewed policy and guidelines for compliance 
with oil and gas reserves disclosure regulation, including the group’s reserves governance framework and controls. 
•
 R
eviewed and challenged the group’s oil and 
gas price assumptions. 
•
 R
eviewed and challenged the group’s discount 
rates for impairment testing purposes. 
•
 I
mpairment charges, reversals and ‘watch-list’ 
items were reviewed as part of the quarterly due diligence process.•
 T
he group’s price assumption for Brent oil 
and for Henry Hub gas were updated as set out on page
 
30 and in Note 1. 
•
 S
ensitivity analyses estimating the effect 
of
 
changes in net revenue and discount rate 
assumptions have been disclosed in Note 1. 
•
 N
et impairment charges of $5.7 billion 
have
 
been disclosed in Note 4. 
•
 E
xploration intangibles totalled $4.3 billion  
at
 
31 December 2023.•
 C
hallenged management on the 
underlying assumptions used in the 
TCFD assessment. 
• R ecommended to the board that the 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F was fair, balanced and understandable. Read more on page 135 .
•
 C
onsidered the FRC’s proposed reforms as 
part of the FRC’s 2023 consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Key
Information that supports TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in relation to Governance (see  page 55 )

100
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Examples of how key accounting 
judgements and
 
estimates were 
considered and addressed, and how relevant accounting policies have been
 
appliedAudit committee activity Conclusions/outcomes
Pensions
Accounting for pensions and other post-
retirement benefits involves making estimates when measuring the group’s pension plan surpluses and deficits. These estimates require assumptions to be made about uncertain events, including discount rates, inflation and life expectancy.•
 R
eviewed and challenged the group’s 
assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the year end, including  the
 
discount rate, rate of inflation and salary 
growth and mortality levels. •
 A
t 31 December 2023, surpluses of 
$7.9 billion and deficits of $5.5 billion were
 
recognized on the balance sheet 
in
 
relation to pensions and other 
post-retirement benefits.
•
 T
he method for determining the group’s 
assumptions remained largely unchanged from 2022. The values of these assumptions and a sensitivity analysis of the impact of possible changes on the benefit expense and
 
obligation are provided in Note 24.
Investment in Aker BP
Judgement is required in assessing the level  
of
 
control or influence over another entity in 
which the group holds an interest. bp uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Aker BP and bp’s share of Aker BP’s oil and natural gas reserves is included in the group’s estimated net proved reserves of equity-accounted entities. The equity-accounting treatment of bp’s 15.9% interest in Aker BP in
 
2023 was dependent on the judgement 
that
 
bp had significant influence over Aker BP.•
 C
onsidered whether bp continued to retain 
significant influence over Aker BP throughout 2023.•
 b
p retained significant influence, as defined 
by IFRS, over Aker BP throughout 2023.
Investment in Rosneft
bp’s interest in Rosneft is measured at a fair 
value of nil.•
 R
eviewed the accounting considerations 
relating to bp’s shareholding in Rosneft and other businesses with Rosneft in Russia, including the valuation of these investments.•
 b
p continues to determine that it does not 
have significant influence over Rosneft.
•
 b
p considers that it is not currently possible 
to estimate any carrying value of the interest in Rosneft other than zero and that the accounting criteria for recognizing any dividend income have not been met.
Derivatives
For level 3 derivative financial instruments, bp
 
estimates their fair values using internal 
models due to the absence of quoted market pricing or other observable, market-corroborated data. 
Judgement may be required to determine 
whether contracts to buy or sell commodities meet the definition of a derivative, in particular liquefied natural gas (LNG) contracts.•
  R eceived a briefing on the group’s trading risks 
and reviewed the system of risk management and controls in place.
•
 R
eviewed the control process and risks 
relating to the trading business.
•
 R
eceived updates on accounting judgements 
on LNG and derivatives associated with hybrid bonds.•
  b p has assets and liabilities of $9.2 billion 
and $7.1 billion, respectively, recognized on
 
the balance sheet for level 3 derivative 
financial instruments at 31 December 2023, mainly relating to the activities of the trading & shipping function. bp’s use of internal models to value certain of these contracts has been disclosed in Note 1.
•
 b
p considers that contracts to buy or sell 
LNG do not meet the definition of a derivative
 
under IFRS. Audit committee continued

101
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Sunbury, UK visit 2023
In November 2023 Tushar Morzaria and members of the 
committee visited the accounting, reporting and control (ARC) team at bp’s offices in Sunbury, UK for a showcase of their work on controls and reporting, including a simplified close approach to quarterly financial reporting. They engaged with members of the broader finance team during a floor walk, hearing their views and thoughts on a number of key topics. 
The committee members also met with the internal audit 
senior leadership team to discuss in depth the proposed internal audit programme for 2024, as well as plans to further harness the use of data analytics. The visit was a great opportunity to build connections with the ARC and internal audit teams, and gain insight into key areas of focus planned for 2024.
Finally, they visited the security operations centre, where 
they learned first-hand about the operations of our digital security team. External audit
Auditor reappointment and independence
• C onsidered and agreed to recommend the 
reappointment of the external auditor to 
the board.
•
 A
ssessed the independence of the external 
auditor on an ongoing basis, taking account of
 
the information and assurances provided 
by the external auditor, the level of non-audit fees, the timeline for rotation of the lead audit partner and the timeline for the re-tender of audit services. Read more under the oversight of audit fees and non-audit services section.
•
 T
he external auditor is required to rotate 
the
 
lead audit partner every five years and 
other senior staff every five to seven years. No partners or senior staff associated with the bp audit may transfer to the group.
•
 E
xternal audit services were last tendered  
in 2016 and the external auditor has been in
 
role for six years (since 2018). It is 
anticipated that a re-tender will be completed by 2026 or sooner, in line with relevant guidelines that require a tender at 10 years. This will allow sufficient time for potential tendering firms and the company to assess non-audit services that could impair independence. The committee believes that
 
the anticipated timeline for the re-tender 
of
 
audit services is in the best interests 
of
 
shareholders as it provides an appropriate 
balance between factors such as knowledge of controls and risks, maintaining audit quality, independence and objectivity and
 
value for money. 
•
 T
he company complies with the 
requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.Assessment of quality and effectiveness
• A ssessed audit quality and effectiveness 
through reports from the external auditor and management, and private meetings with
 
the external auditor. The committee 
was
 
satisfied that the audit team was 
providing the required quality of services, demonstrated the necessary commitment and ability and had provided constructive challenge to management. The committee received the following audit quality reports as part of its assessment:–
 E
xternal auditor insights report – 
summary of areas of opportunity for improvements to processes related to financial reporting or internal controls, management’s response to the recommendations identified, progress made against any prior year items and
 
areas of focus for the year ahead.
–
 M
anagement survey  – the survey sought 
views from key internal stakeholders on the external auditor’s performance, for which the main measurement criteria were: planning and scope, robustness of
 
audit, independence and objectivity, 
quality of delivery, quality of people and service, and value-added advice. The survey also sought feedback on bp’s commitment to the audit. The overall score from the survey increased compared to the previous year with areas of strength noted including audit team judgement, integrity and attitude, as well as communication.
•
 D
iscussed improvement opportunities, 
including the benefits of further information on how the external auditor used technology in their audit.Audit plan
• R eviewed the external audit plan, in 
particular the materiality level versus prior
 
years and key audit risks relating to: 
impairment of oil and gas property plant and
 
equipment assets; accounting for 
complex transactions; valuation of financial instruments with significant unobservable inputs; and management override of controls. As part of the external audit plan, received a report on audit quality, including actions taken to address the FRC’s annual report on the external auditor, as well as the inspection results of the external auditor’s quality control procedures.
•
 A
pproved the external audit plan, noting key 
scoping changes, resourcing, and received updates on delivery against the plan, as well as an update prior to year end on key audit risks. A summary of the audit approach, including audit risks, is set out in the independent auditor’s report on pages
 
138-163 .
Oversight of audit fees and non-audit 
services
• R eviewed the fee structure, resourcing 
and terms of engagement for the 
external auditor.
•
 R
etained oversight of bp’s policy on 
non-audit services and the review and approval of non-audit services. The policy
 
safeguards audit objectivity and 
independence through the prohibition of non-audit tax services being provided by the
 
external auditor, the limitation of 
audit-related work which falls within defined categories, and by stating that the auditor may not perform non-audit services that are prohibited by the SEC, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), 

102
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023International Auditing and Assurance 
Standards Board (IAASB) or the FRC.
•
 A
pproves the terms of all audit services as 
well as permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance. The external auditor is considered for permitted non-audit services only when its expertise and experience of
 
bp
 
are important. Approvals for individual 
engagements of pre-approved permitted services below certain thresholds are delegated to the SVP accounting, reporting and control or the CFO. Any proposed service not included in the permitted services categories must be approved in
 
advance by either the committee chair 
or
 
the committee prior to engagement.
•
 T
he committee, CFO and SVP accounting, 
reporting and control monitor overall compliance with bp’s policy on audit-related and non-audit services, including whether the necessary pre-approvals have been obtained. The categories of permitted and pre-approved services are outlined in the principal accountant’s fees and services on
 
page  
360.
•
 T
he total non-audit fees paid to Deloitte for 
2023 was $3 million. The majority of these fees related to work of an assurance nature. See Note 36 for further information.
•
 F
ees paid to the auditor for the year are set 
out in Note 36. The committee is satisfied that this level of fee is appropriate in respect of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can be conducted for this fee. Non-audit or non-audit-related services consisted of other assurance services.
Internal audit and internal  controls
Internal audit
• A ppraised the performance of the SVP 
internal audit and agreed their objectives. 
•
 R
ecommended the SVP internal audit’s 
remuneration to the remuneration committee.
•
 M
et privately with the SVP internal audit. 
The committee chair also met with the SVP
 
internal audit on a regular basis.
•
 C
ontinued to monitor and review the 
effectiveness and capabilities of internal audit during the year and concluded that the function had unrestricted scope, together with access to information and sufficient resources to fulfil its mandate.
•
 R
eviewed the internal audit plan and 
alignment to risk factor coverage. Received updates on audits undertaken and adjustments made to the plan. Undertook a
 
deep-dive on the internal audit planning 
process for 2024.•
 R
eceived regular updates on findings during 
the year and challenged management’s response and progress made on the closure of findings.
•
 M
onitored progress against the internal audit 
plan and adjustments made during the year through updates from internal audit. Areas of focus included cyber security, digital product delivery and resilience, trading activities, aspects of the energy transition such as bp pulse and ethics and compliance controls.
•
 O
versaw the appointment in October 
2023 and onboarding of the new SVP internal audit.
•
 R
eviewed and approved the internal 
audit charter.
•
 R
eviewed the implementation of 
recommendations from the 2022 external effectiveness review of the internal audit function, including the enhancement of data analytics.
Internal controls
• D iscussed with management and the 
external auditor financial reporting and internal controls processes, reviewed any control gaps identified and monitored mitigating actions.
•
 U
ndertook a deep-dive on significant 
deficiencies and control environment, with a focus on IT user access and journal controls. The committee focused on mitigating measures, ongoing remediation work and challenged management on the timeline for the development of more enduring controls.
•
 R
eceived a report from internal audit on its 
annual review of internal control and risk management, together with an assessment from management on the system of internal control.
•
 R
eviewed the control and assurance 
framework for non-financial reporting  (NFR), including ESG reporting and climate-related metrics, under the NFR framework, and challenged management as to whether bp had the most appropriate suite of NFR metrics for disclosures against bp’s strategy, aims and ambition. 
• R eviewed the effectiveness of, and 
challenged management on, bp’s system of internal control and risk management and concluded that these were effective. See the directors’ statements on pages
 
134-135  
for further information on the basis for the conclusion on effectiveness and the nature of the review.
Risk
• R outinely reviewed and monitored principal 
risks allocated to it through a combination of business reviews and focused engagements, as well as updates from management, internal audit and the external auditor. The principal risks allocated to the committee for monitoring in 2023 were:–
 P
rices and markets.
–
 L
iquidity, financial capacity and financial, 
including credit, exposure.
–
 I
nsurance.
–
 R
egulation.
–
 T
rading and treasury trading activities.
–
 R
eporting.
•
 T
he committee also shared responsibility 
for
 
oversight of the following principal risks 
with the safety and sustainability committee and board: –
 J
oint arrangements  and contractors 
(shared with the safety and sustainability committee).
–
 E
thical misconduct and non-compliance 
(shared with the board and safety and sustainability committee).
•
 E
xamples of committee principal risk 
activities, in addition to risks associated with
 
reporting which are referenced above, 
included:–
 R
eviewed cash flow forecasts, business 
affordability of distributions and the financial frame.
–
 R
eviewed and challenged the longer-term 
outlook for energy prices in line with bp’s price assumptions for investment, including their consistency with the goals of the Paris Agreement compared with a broad range of external Paris-consistent scenarios. 
– R eviewed off-balance-sheet 
commitments and reviewed the longer-term viability statement at year end, together with the going concern basis of accounting at the full- and half-year ends.
–
 U
ndertook a jointly held review of 
non-operated joint ventures (NOJVs) risk with the safety and sustainability committee.
–
 U
ndertook a review of insurance risk.
–
 R
eceived updates on the systems in place 
to assess fraud risk, the controls in place to manage and mitigate the identified risk and progress on the roll-out of additional controls.
–
 R
eceived an update on compliance 
with
 
regulation together with additional 
briefings during the year on technical accounting updates and developing ESG
 
reporting disclosures. 
– U ndertook two business reviews of 
the trading & shipping business and a deep-dive session on LNG.
•
 F
or more information on how we manage 
risk, see risk factors on page  
77, liquidity 
and
 
capital resources on page  
340, and 
Note
 
29 Financial instruments and financial 
risk factors. Audit committee continued

103
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Dear fellow shareholders, 
I am pleased to present the safety and 
sustainability committee report for the year ended 31 December 2023.
The committee continued to monitor the bp 
leadership team’s drive to improve safety and environmental performance, with a particular focus in 2023 on the reduction of tier 1 and 2 process safety events
. This included 
deep-dives on specific areas of the business where safety risk is considered to have the potential to be significant or material. 
As part of this work, two site visits were 
completed during 2023: one to the Permian Basin and Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf  of Mexico in February, and the second to the Tangguh liquefied natural gas (LNG) site in West
 
Papua, Indonesia in November. Site visits 
provide a valuable opportunity for committee members to experience the safety and sustainability culture within bp’s operations first-hand. Read more on both visits on  page 104 . 
Tragically, three people lost their lives during 2023. A contractor was fatally injured at a bp wellsite in the Permian Basin in May 2023 after the forklift he was driving came into contact with an overhead powerline.Two additional fatalities occurred in our TravelCenters of America business, which we acquired in May 2023. One was in September 2023 as a result of employee violence, and the other in November 2023 when an employee was
 
hit by a truck.
Our sincere condolences go out to the families and friends of those who have been lost. We continue to focus on learnings from safety events and to cascade these learnings through the business. 
Role of the committee
The committee oversees the management of
 
safety and sustainability matters, including 
relevant systems and processes, focusing on those which it considers to be most potentially material from time to time.
Key responsibilities
The committee’s full terms of reference can be viewed at bp.com/governance .
Melody Meyer
Committee chair
8 March 2024Safety and sustainability committee
Meetings and attendance
The committee met six times in 2023. Regular attendees included SVP internal audit, EVP production & operations, EVP strategy, sustainability and ventures, SVP HSE and carbon, SVP safety and operational risk assurance, SVP sustainability and VP internal audit – safety and sustainability. 
Non-executive directorsSix 
scheduled 
meetings
Melody Meyer: member (May 2017), chair of the committee (November 2019) 6/6
Satish Pai: member (March 2023) 5/5
Sir John Sawers: member 6/6
Johannes Teyssen: member 6/6Site visits provide a valuable opportunity for 
committee members to experience the safety and sustainability culture within bp’s operations first-hand.
Chair’s introduction
Activities during the year 
Safety performance and assurance
• R eceived updates at every meeting from the 
EVP production & operations on key safety 
performance metrics from across all parts of the business, including process, personal and operational safety and non-operated as well as operated joint ventures
.
•
 R
eceived reports at every meeting on 
major operational, security (including crisis management and business continuity) and cyber security incidents.
Sustainability 
• R eceived routine updates from the SVP, 
sustainability, including on:–
 P
rogress on implementation of bp’s 
sustainability aims.
–
 S
ustainability reporting.
–
 T
he sustainability frame, including 
deep-dives on advancing our net zero, people and planet aims.
–
 T
he process and findings of the external 
auditor’s limited assurance exercise over selected sustainability metrics.
–
 I
nternal climate policy. 
Internal audit
• R eceived regular updates on internal audit 
activity, and an annual report on systems of internal control and updates on the internal audit programme. 
Risk
• R outinely reviewed and monitored principal 
risks allocated to it through a combination of business reviews and focused engagements, as well as updates from management.
•
 T
he principal risks allocated to the 
committee for monitoring in 2023 were:–
 C
risis management and business 
continuity.
–
 P
rocess safety, personal safety, 
and
 
environmental risks.
–
 D
rilling and production.
–
 S
ecurity.
–
 P
roduct quality.

104
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023• T he committee also shared responsibility for 
oversight of the following principal risks with 
the audit committee and board:–
 J
oint arrangements  and contractors 
(shared with the audit committee).
–
 D
igital infrastructure, cyber security and 
data protection (shared with the board).
–
 E
thical misconduct and non-compliance 
(shared with the board and audit committee).
Principal risk deep-dives
• R eviewed and monitored the principal risks 
allocated to it through several deep-dive updates tabled throughout the year, for example covering risks related to wells, product quality, ethical misconduct and non-compliance, and non-operated joint ventures (NOJVs).
•
 R
eceived deep-dive updates in relation to 
specific risk areas within the business. For example, a deep-dive was held on the bpx energy business, covering current risks, well control risk management, the Operating Management System
 (OMS) and progress 
against process and personal safety performance and improvement plans.
•
 R
eceived further deep-dive updates 
regarding other significant or material events, including detail on actions being taken, for example in relation to:–
 Fat
alities following a fire at a bp oil 
refinery in Toledo, US during 2022 (which was subsequently sold in 2023).
–
 P
rogress made by the site operator in the 
reduction of flaring activity at an NOJV in Rumaila, Iraq.
–
 T
he contractor fatality in the Permian 
Basin.
–
 T
he employee fatalities at TravelCenters 
of America sites in 2023.
–
 R
egulatory compliance issues.
•
 R
eviewed reports on significant risk events, 
probing management on investigations, remediating actions and the proactive cascading of learnings throughout the business. 
•
 R
eceived ethics and compliance reports on 
a quarterly basis. 
Other matters
• R eviewed annual cash bonus (ACB) target 
adjustments.
•
 R
eviewed and recommended to the 
remuneration committee, changes to the ACB framework relating to emissions reductions targets 
 (see page 50 ) and a 
structured framework for consideration of fatalities and how they should influence remuneration outcomes. Tangguh visit November 2023
The committee visited our major LNG site on the Indonesian island of Papua to meet the team and understand first-hand the safety and sustainability aspects of their operations. 
The committee toured all three LNG trains and 
heard how safety learnings from Trains 1 and 2 had been implemented in Train 3. The visit also provided a valuable opportunity to engage with a broad variety of local stakeholders of the site. The committee:
•
 M
et with Papuan colleagues who recently 
graduated from bp’s technician training 
programme (70% of Tangguh LNG’s workforce are from the local Papuan community). •
  M et with the Tangguh Women’s 
International Network (women make up 50% of the overall technician workforce that have graduated from bp’s technician training programme).
•
 V
isited the local village of Tanah Merah 
Baru to speak with community leaders, tour the school and get a first-hand view of Tangguh’s community and sustainability initiatives.
•
 V
isited Tangguh’s mangrove plantation, 
where over 2,000 mangrove trees have been planted on site using recycled fertile soil from dredging activity, in addition to over one million trees planted in the local community. Permian Basin and Gulf of Mexico visit February 2023
Melody Meyer, chair of the committee, and Pamela Daley, member of the bp board, visited the Permian Basin and Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico.
The trip to the Permian provided an 
opportunity to see how bp is seeking to reduce operational greenhouse gas emissions through its electrification strategy in the basin. The directors also heard about initiatives to  eliminate routine flaring and to reduce tier 1 process safety events
. This provided both 
directors with an insight into the deep commitment to safety on-site. 
The directors also visited the Thunder Horse 
production drilling quarters semi-submersible oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico, where directors engaged with the site team on the approach to safe and reliable operations within this joint venture with ExxonMobil. Safety and sustainability committee continued
 Key
Information that supports TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures in relation to Governance (see pages 55 to 58 )

105
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Directors’ remuneration report
During the year, bp’s performance was 
robust – both operationally and financially… and there has been continued progress in bp’s transformation to an integrated energy company.
Role of the committee 
The role of the committee is to determine and 
recommend to the board the remuneration policy and to set chair, executive director and leadership team remuneration. In determining the policy, the committee takes into account various factors, including wider workforce remuneration, structures and alignment of reward to performance, thus promoting the long-term success of the company. The committee also reviews workforce remuneration and monitors related policies, satisfying itself that incentives and rewards are aligned with bp’s goals and culture. 
Key responsibilities 
A summary of the committee’s terms of reference is on page
 
359 and the full terms can 
be reviewed at bp.com/governance .
Key areas of focus in 2023
• C hange in leadership – set the terms of 
appointment for the interim CEO for the period from 12 September 2023 to 17 January 2024 and interim CFO for the period from 19 September 2023 to 2 February 2024. Determined the departure terms for the former CEO. 
•
 W
orkforce engagement – engaged with the 
wider workforce on reward and wellbeing – for example, met with new hires to discuss their initial views on bp’s reward structures.
•
 R
emuneration outcomes  – monitored 
in-flight progress of equity and bonus awards, and evaluated salary and benefits against peer group comparators, considering adjustments where appropriate. 
•
 Re
porting  – reviewed the directors’ 
remuneration report and the UK gender and ethnicity pay gap report.
•
 Sus
tainability measures  – discussed and 
agreed to the sustainability measures in annual and long-term performance scorecards. For example, after consulting with the safety and sustainability committee and taking into account feedback from shareholders, the remuneration committee set an alternative measure related to operational emissions for the 2024 annual bonus and 2024-26 long-term incentive plan award. 
Meetings and attendance
The chair and the chief executive officer (CEO) attend meetings of the committee except for matters relating to their own remuneration. The CEO is consulted on remuneration of the chief financial officer (CFO), the leadership team and receives input from the committee on remuneration across the wider workforce. Both the CEO and CFO are consulted on matters relating to group’s performance and the metrics adopted for each performance cycle. 
bp’s EVP people & culture, SVP reward, external advisors and other executives may attend where 
necessary. The committee consults other board committees on the group’s performance and on issues relating to the exercise of judgement or discretion as necessary. 
The committee met eight times during the year. All directors attended each meeting they were 
eligible to attend, except one previous apology for a planned meeting. 
Non-executive directorsSix 
scheduled 
meetingsTwo  
ad-hoc 
meetings
Paula Rosput Reynolds: member (September 2017), chair of the committee (May 2018) 6/6 2/2
Dame Amanda Blanca: member (January 2023) 5/6 2/2
Pamela Daley: member 6/6 2/2
Melody Meyer: member 6/6 2/2
Tushar Morzaria: member 6/6 2/2
a D ame Amanda Blanc was unable to attend one planned meeting during 2023 due to a prior commitment. She received 
accompanying material and had the opportunity to provide comments to the committee.Contents
Remuneration at a glance 109
Engaging with our workforce 111
Executive directors’ pay for 2023 113
2023 annual bonus outcome 114
2021-23 performance share plan 
outcome116
Policy implementation for 2024 119
Stewardship and executive directors’ interests125
Payments to past directors and for loss of office127
Chair and non-executive directors’ outcomes and interests128

106
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Dear fellow shareholders, 
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present 
our 2023 directors’ remuneration report. This report provides details of the remuneration decisions we have reached regarding current and former executive directors. These decisions comply with the remuneration policy that was overwhelmingly approved at the 2023 Annual General Meeting (AGM) by 94% of the voting shares. The report also covers various matters pertaining to the wider workforce.
Performance and reward for 2023
Business performance 
During the year, bp’s performance was robust – both operationally and financially. Among other metrics, the company achieved an underlying replacement cost profit
 of $13.8 
billion and sustained high levels of reliability and availability of our operations. Operating cash flow
 was $32.0 billion and net debt  was 
reduced to $20.9 billion. 
There has been continued progress in bp’s 
transformation to an integrated energy company, with momentum across our resilient hydrocarbons, convenience and mobility and low carbon businesses. 
2023 annual bonus 
The 2023 annual bonus was based on a scorecard of performance measures across three categories: safety and sustainability (30%), operations (20%) and financials (50%). 
Safety and sustainability 
Safety comes first for all employees at bp; avoiding incidents or injuries that irreversibly change lives is of paramount importance. 
Tier 1 and tier 2 process safety events
 
performance improved, with the number of 
events in each category lower than in 2022 and below our targets for 2023. This outcome reflects a relentless focus on process and personal safety. Nevertheless, the positive process safety performance was sadly overshadowed by three workforce fatalities – one within bpx energy and two at our recently acquired TravelCenters of America facilities.
Details of these fatalities, including the actions 
taken by management in response, are set out on page 69  in the sustainability section of the 
strategic report.          The committee decided to apply downward discretion to the formulaic outcome for the entire bonus score reflecting the fatality in our bpx energy business; we reduced the bonus by 5 points for all participants in the 2023 annual cash bonus plan (ACB) to reinforce all employees’ individual and collective responsibility for delivering safe operations. The TravelCenters of America incidents were not reflected in the adjustment, which is in line with our new framework for assessing newly acquired assets (see page 122 ).
Further detail on the impact of safety on pay outcomes is provided on page 115 . 
Sustainability is measured in the annual bonus scorecard by the degree to which the company reduces Scope 1 and 2 emissions. We track sustainable emissions reductions (SER)
 and 
performance in 2023 was slightly ahead of target, delivering 0.908mte of reductions in 2023 and 7.973mte cumulatively since 2017.
Operations
bp delivered strong performance against this category, driven by both high hydrocarbon plant reliability
 and refining availability , and 
achieved an outcome of 95.7% for this combined measure. In addition to reliability and availability of our hydrocarbons operations, we adopted another operational measure for 2023 intended to give focus to our newer businesses. Namely, we measured convenience & EV gross margin growth (%)
 which accounts for 10% of 
the award. The organization demonstrated robust year-on-year growth under this metric (10.6% vs. our target of 10%).
Financials 
Our financial performance has two measures: annual adjusted EBITDA
 and adjusted free 
cash flow . Adjusted EBITDA delivery was 
strong at $43.7 billion, resulting in a near maximum outcome for this measure. This outcome reflected both higher production and strong trading results. Adjusted free cash flow was $15.1 billion, which exceeded the maximum target we set for 2023.   As a reminder, in line with policy, the targets for both financial measures are adjusted for the actual price environment to reflect underlying performance.Chair’s introduction Overall result
The formulaic outcome of the annual bonus considering safety, operational and financial performance was 1.64 out of 2.00. As described above, the committee decided to exercise its discretion on the mechanical outcome on account of the fatality within bpx energy and reduced the outcome by 5 points to 1.59 out of 2.00 for all participants of the plan (which translates to 79.5% of the maximum opportunity).
2021-23 performance shares 
bp started its transition to an integrated energy company in 2020. As a result, this is the second cycle of equity (2021-23) in which we have evaluated performance over a three-year period since the strategy was set in place.
The 2021-23 performance shares were 
measured against relative TSR (20% weighting), return on average capital employed (ROACE) (20% weighting)
, adjusted EBIDA per 
share CAGR  (20% weighting) and strategic 
progress (40% weighting). The relative weighting of these measures for this award reflected the need, we perceived at the time, to create a significant incentive for strategic progress in the period immediately following the strategy change announced in 2020, ensuring a continued focus on ambitious financial goals and the delivery of shareholder value. 
bp’s relative TSR performance recovered in the 
2021-23 period compared to the prior 2020-22 period. bp achieved median returns relative to peers – placing bp fourth out of eight in the comparator group. This performance resulted in 25% vesting. 
Underlying financial performance was resilient 
over the performance period and both performance measures achieved full vesting; the 2021-23 average ROACE performance was 20.6%, which materially exceeded the ambitious target we set in 2021. Similarly, adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR outperformed target and achieved an outcome of 15.8%.
Unlike the three measures described above, 
strategic progress was not a quantitative assessment. By design, this measure is assessed in the round – and in two successive policy votes, shareholders have affirmed their willingness to have this committee make these judgements on progress.       
 
 

107
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373When assessing outcomes under the strategic 
progress measure for the 2021-23 performance shares, the committee considered how management have delivered on bp’s transition plans, including its financial resilience, and how they relate to our communicated 2025 targets.
Overall, bp’s hydrocarbons business has 
performed well with all underlying measures on track towards our 2025 targets. In low carbon energy we have seen growth in our pipeline against the backdrop of tough economic conditions, and our convenience and mobility businesses have shown resilient performance in tough trading conditions.
When considering strategic progress in the 
round, the committee determined that an outcome of 75% of maximum was appropriate.
Looking forward, the committee has decided to 
evaluate strategic progress based on value generation potential rather than volume goals. The committee will be looking for evidence that the transition growth
 engines are generating 
sustainable, and growing, earnings. Simultaneously, we will continue to assess progress in the resilience of our hydrocarbon portfolio. 
Furthermore, for the next performance share 
cycle – 2024-26 – the committee has decided to lower the weighting of strategic progress in the scorecard to 20% of the total. We will also raise the relative TSR weighting to 25%. These changes are permitted under the current remuneration policy.
The committee has come to these conclusions 
with the benefit of shareholder feedback we have received. Namely, shareholders have supported our strategy, but they have noted that vesting of performance shares must reflect the broader shareholder experience over the cycle. They are particularly keen to see the financial resilience of the transition growth engines. We hope you will agree that using value-driven criteria for the outstanding awards and de-rating of strategic progress for future awards is an appropriate response to shareholder feedback received.
Overall, the sum of the several components that 
go into performance share vesting for the 2021-23 cycle was 75% of maximum. The committee believes that this outcome is reflective of performance during the period and therefore has not applied any further discretion.
 
      Looking ahead to 2024 
For 2024, we have reviewed the operation of the 
bonus and performance shares against our strategy and are proposing only modest changes, all consistent with our shareholder-approved remuneration policy.
Alignment with strategy 
Sustainability performance 
In 2023, we consulted with shareholders about 
changing the measurement of our progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions to provide a direct link to bp’s aim 1, to achieve net zero operations by 2050 or sooner.
In our annual bonus scorecard, instead of SER 
we will use a measure of operated carbon emissions. Unlike SER, operated carbon emissions is a measure recognized by stakeholders and thus allows comparability of our results with those of others in our industry. This measure covers the Scope 1 and 2 emissions reported under aim 1 (net zero operations) and will have the same weighting as SER previously did (15% of award).
It is our intent to measure and reward 
progressive improvements in operated carbon emissions performance both over the short and long term. We are therefore introducing this operated carbon emissions metric to our 2024-26 executive directors’ incentive plan (EDIP) scorecard to better align with our strategic ambition of net zero by 2050 or sooner. This measure will be weighted at 15% and for reference, we will use 2019 as the baseline year (which is consistent with the baseline year for bp’s aim 1).
Recognizing the transition  
growth engines
bp has aims to accelerate the growth in 
earnings from transition growth engines. Rather than picking business unit specific operating metrics (e.g. convenience margin, EV sales growth), we will measure and report on earnings growth overall in our transition growth engines. This measure should provide better visibility to shareholders as to the financial quality of our transition growth investment
 and focus our 
teams on ensuring that these new businesses can generate meaningful earnings over time. We will weight this metric at 10% in the annual bonus.             Focus on safety
A number of shareholders provided feedback in 2023 that we were not giving a meaningful enough message through bonus adjustments when fatalities occurred. We have carefully considered the comments and agree that we should modify our approach. Namely, if any workforce fatality occurs during the year, the committee will make it normal practice to adjust the overall bonus outcome downwards. The downward adjustment will vary based on the specific circumstances and will apply broadly across the organization. Notwithstanding this change, safety is an underpin to all of our plans and so we retain absolute discretion to reflect lapses in safety in remuneration outcomes.
Further details have been set out on page 122 . 
Alignment with stakeholders
Wider workforce
When reflecting on pay decisions in relation to 
the executive directors, the committee is mindful of the pay arrangements of the wider workforce. For 2024, the wider workforce will receive an average salary increase of 4.5% in the UK. Adjustments in other jurisdictions vary by local conditions. All bp employees in the UK earn at least the UK Living Wage.
We are aware that a number of bp’s UK 
pensioners have asked bp management to consent to a trustee request to provide an additional discretionary increase that is over and above the 5% increase they have received under the scheme rules, to their pensions. Discretionary pension increases under bp’s many pension schemes around the world are a matter for management. We do note that management made additional funding to the bp Helios Fund and the Retail Trust, which has enabled the trustees of those bodies to support pensioners who are most in need through a one-off grant. 
 

108
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Shareholder engagement 
In 2023, during the development of our 
directors’ remuneration policy, we engaged extensively with our shareholders and the main proxy agencies. We discussed the company’s strategy, their expectations in relation to executive pay, and in some cases, our approach to remuneration upon the departure of our former CEO. By letter and in individual conversations, we have engaged with our largest shareholders and proxy agencies on the proposed outcomes for 2023 and the implementation of our policy going forward. 
Executive director changes 
As announced on 12 September 2023, Bernard Looney resigned as CEO with immediate effect. The board triggered its emergency succession plan to ensure continuity in leadership, resulting in Murray Auchincloss’s appointment as interim CEO with immediate effect. As you will have read in our disclosures elsewhere, the board undertook a robust and competitive executive succession process, ultimately resulting in the decision to appoint Murray Auchincloss as the permanent CEO on 17 January 2024. On 2 February 2024, Kate Thomson, who had been acting as interim CFO, was appointed as permanent CFO and became an executive director of the board. 
CEO arrangements 
Upon appointment as interim CEO, the committee agreed that Murray Auchincloss should receive base pay equal to that of his predecessor for 2023, but that his bonus would be based on a pro-rated salary rather than his new higher salary and that no additional equity grants would be made in the interim. His annual salary was therefore set at £1.45 million, reflecting his increased responsibility, and the competitive landscape. 
Upon appointment as permanent CEO, Murray’s 
salary remained unchanged at £1.45 million and he will not receive a salary increase for 2024. All elements of his remuneration will be in line with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy The details have been set out in full on pages 119 to 120 .  
            
 
 CFO arrangements
Having acted as interim CFO since September 
2023, Kate Thomson was appointed to the board and as permanent CFO on 2 February 2024. 
Upon appointment, her base pay has been set at 
£800,000 and will not be reviewed until 1 April 2025. The committee believes it is appropriate that Kate’s salary be set at a lower level than that of her predecessor, reflecting her limited experience in a board role. However, the committee will keep the CFO salary under review each year, with regard to performance in the role and market conditions. As such, it is possible that any future adjustments may exceed the percentage for the wider workforce for a period, subject to performance. All elements of Kate’s new package are consistent with our remuneration policy. 
Former CEO departure terms 
In December 2023, the board determined that serious misconduct had occurred in relation to the former CEO. At that time, we disclosed the provisions of his separation. Full details of which are provided on page 127 . 
All remuneration decisions have been made in accordance with our shareholder-approved policy. 
Concluding remarks
At the close of this year’s AGM, I will depart the board of bp as my nine-year tenure concludes. 
As I depart, I want to express my appreciation to 
my colleagues on this committee, the advisors and executives who support us in our deliberations – and to you, our shareholders, for your constructive feedback and candour. I am gratified that we have always come to agreement on the way forward, after what has often been vigorous and challenging discussion.
 
            
 
        I trust that 2024 will be no exception. The committee has remained true to the policy you approved and where we have used discretion, it has been thoughtfully undertaken. As always, we welcome your comments on the materials covered herein. One final time, I respectfully ask for your vote in favour of the resolution to approve the 2023 directors’ remuneration report at the upcoming AGM. 
Paula Rosput Reynolds
Committee chair8 March 2024

40%
20%
40%40%
5%
30%
Maximum
oppor tunityFormulaic
outcome50%
20%
30%49.5%
11.8%
20.7%
Maximum
oppo rtunityFormulaic
outcome79.5%
Actual
outcome
Bernard
Looney Murray
Auchinclossb2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023£9.95m£12.68m
£8.82m£11.73m£11.43m
£10.45m
£1.74m£4.46m£10.33m
£8.03m
Bob Dudley
a 1.
2.
3.
4.
3. Annual bonus
4. Performance shares1. Salary and beneﬁts
2. Cash allowance in lieu of pensionKey
109
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Remuneration at a glance
Key performance highlights in 2023 
Pay outcomes in 2023$32.0bn  
operating cash flow 
Resilient financial performance $20.9bn  
net debt
Lowest level over past decade 27.760¢  
dividends paid per 
ordinary
 
share 
+21% increase vs. 2022• A cquisition of TravelCenters of America 
•
 1
50% increase in energy sales volumes 
and 35% increase in EV charge points
• B iogas supply volumes  rose by 80% year  
on year
 
•
 L
NG supply portfolio increased by over 
20%
 
to ~23mtpa (2022 19mtpa)
Annual bonus 2023 Performance shares 2021-23
75% of maximum
formulaic outcome82% of maximum
formulaic outcome 
79.5% of maximum *
actual outcome after 
exercise of discretion
 Safety and sustainability   Operations   Financials
 Policy requirement   Actual Strategic progress   rTSR   Financials
Application of discretion
The committee may exercise discretion in determining the outcomes for the annual bonus and performance shares, reflecting on the broader 
stakeholder experience during the performance period.
*For 2023, downward discretion was applied to the annual bonus and the formulaic outcome has been reduced by 5 points to 1.59 for all 
participants. Further details on the application of discretion have been set out on page 115 . 
Single figure history 
10-year trend of remuneration 
Single figure for 2023
19%
Total fixed 
remuneration81%
Total variable remuneration
Target:  £5.8m  
Maximum:  £10.1m
a B ob Dudley’s single figure converted from USD to GBP at the relevant exchange rate.
b
 F
or 2023, the single figure for the CEO (Murray Auchincloss) has been shown in the 
chart. See page 113  for further details on the former CEO’s single figure for 2023.
Alignment with shareholders
Share ownership
Share ownership is a key means by 
which the interests of executive directors are aligned with those of shareholders. Murray exceeds the current policy requirement. 5 times salary Policy requirement
6.4 times salary, 1,396,411 shares Murray Auchincloss (CEO)£8.03m2023

   
Sustainab ility
IntegrationTransition growth engines Convenience
and mobility
Bioenergyb Hydrogen
Renewables & powerConvenience
EV chargingLow carbon 
energyResilient 
hydrocar bons
110
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Application of remuneration policy for 2024
Set out below is an illustration of how the remuneration policy will be implemented for 2024. 
bp’s strategy
Key focusAlignment of 2024 variable remuneration with strategy
Each year, the committee aims to set a remuneration framework for executive directors that supports and incentivizes progress towards our strategy. 
For 2024 the performance measures in the annual bonus and performance shares scorecards have been refined slightly to further align with our strategy. Measures that have been introduced for 2024 have been marked with 
 below. Further details on the rationale for their inclusion can be 
found on pages 121 and 123 .2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
Fixed pay
(salary, pension 
and benefits)• U pon appointment, the CEO and CFO’s salaries were set at 
£1.45
 
million and £0.8 million respectively. 
•
 S
alaries will remain unchanged in respect of 2024. This compares 
to an average increase of 4.5% for the UK wider workforce in 2024. 
 
A
nnual bonusa• C EO’s max opportunity: 225% of salary. 
•
 C
FO’s max opportunity: 225% of salary. 
•
 F
or 2024, transition growth engines adjusted EBITDA % growth  
and operated carbon emissions have been introduced to the bonus scorecard (see below) .
Performance shares•
 C
EO’s max opportunity: 500% of salary.
•
 C
FO’s max opportunity: 450% of salary. 
•
 F
or 2024, cumulative reduction % in operated carbon emissions has 
been introduced to the performance shares scorecard (see below) .
Shareholding requirement•
 I
n-employment and post-employment guidelines will continue 
to apply.
a H alf the bonus is paid in cash, and half is deferred into bp shares for three years up until ‘minimum shareholding requirement’ is met. At this point, 67% is paid in cash and 33% is deferred into 
bp shares.1-year 
performance period
3-year deferral period
3-year performance period 3-year holding period
Our ambition: Net zero by 2050 or sooner 
Financial frameNet zero  
by 2050  
or soonerFinancial 
frame Strategy
Annual bonus
Safety and sustainability  (30%)
Tier 1 and tier 2 process safety events  
Operated carbon emissions 
Operations  (20%)
bp-operated reliability and availability
Transition growth engines adjusted EBITDA % growth  
Financials  (50%)  
Adjusted free cash flow ($bn)
Earnings (adjusted EBITDA)
Performance shares
Cumulative reduction % in operated carbon emissions 
(15%)
rTSR (25%)
ROACE (20%)
Adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR (20%)
Strategic progress (20%)
b B ioenergy includes customer-facing and midstream biofuels activities that form part of convenience and mobility.Remuneration at a glance continued

111
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Financial wellbeing
Objective : Alleviate the impact of money concerns on overall wellbeing.
•
 D
uring the year, we hosted a series of global events on financial wellbeing for our below board 
employees. The sessions aimed to provide practical tips on how to manage day-to-day finances 
and signposted the financial support systems in place at bp. 
•
 T
hese events were made available to all site-based employees globally, with relevant material 
being extended to our retail and non-site-based employees. 
•
 I
ntroduced financial coaching sessions to support colleagues in the UK with managing their 
personal finances. Following this success, we plan to roll-out a global toolkit for financial wellbeing in 2024. 
•
 I
n the UK, all new joiners are entitled to a free 1:1 financial coaching session with other 
colleagues receiving a discounted service. 
Focus on retail•
 A
ccredited as a Living Wage Employer in the UK since 2020 – first major energy, mobility 
and
 
convenience employer to achieve this. 
•
 I
ncreased the hourly wages of ~6,000 staff as part of an £8 million annual investment in pay 
which is effective 1 April 2024. In practice, this will mean that staff nationwide will receive over £2,000 extra a year. 
•
 C
ontinue to ensure our retail employees are offered a competitive benefits package, 
which
 
includes discounted food and shopping and paid breaks (worth ~£2,500 a year).Workforce engagement
During the year, the committee continued its direct engagement sessions with the wider workforce through a number of forums. The intention of the
 
sessions was to better understand the views of our workforce and to 
encourage an open discussion on relevant matters. More detail on bp’s workforce engagement agenda can be found on page 92 .
With regards to remuneration, a session was held with recent joiners at management level to discuss their initial views on bp’s culture and remuneration models (including executive pay). The selected participants came from different parts of the business, from energy to consumer to technology, and represented a diverse group. Without exception, they expressed support for bp’s strategy. There was a shared sense that the culture at bp was welcoming and open, with colleagues wanting to drive success. Our transition to an integrated energy company was frequently cited as a reason for joining the organization. While commentary on our remuneration models was broadly positive, we received feedback that there could be greater simplicity in the structure of incentives.
As ever, we were impressed by our colleagues’ readiness to share open 
and honest feedback with board members and will continue to reflect on
 
our workforce views as we consider executive pay decisions.
Physical and mental wellbeing 
Objective: Support employees to proactively improve their physical and mental health.•
 A
chieved menopause-friendly employee accreditation from 2023 for the UK. This included 
launching new guidance, e-learning modules for colleagues and leaders and collaborating with
 
our external providers.
•
 I
n 2023, bp provided more paid leave and enhanced medical coverage in several countries 
–
 
including Singapore, Malaysia, India and Hungary. 
•
 I
n the process of designing a new global mental health education programmes for our wider 
workforce called ‘Healthy Minds’.
•
 F
ollowing the success of rolling out free membership for the Headspace app, around 
9,000
 
employees enrolled globally.
•
 F
or the first time, ‘Thrive Together’ our wellbeing challenge was available globally 
–
 
inspiring
 
employees to take positive action and enhance their wellbeing.Engaging with our workforce
At bp, we believe that having a diverse and engaged workforce is critical for us to deliver our strategy. We aim to create an open dialogue among our board, senior management and the wider workforce – including on topics such as remuneration (see section below).
During 2023, the committee was particularly mindful of the higher  
cost of living and the challenges inflation presents for many. bp has introduced a range of initiatives to help improve the wellbeing of our colleagues. We have continued to review our pay arrangements in our retail businesses and are committed to ensuring that our offering is fair.  This includes a commitment to increase our hourly wage for  ~6,000 UK staff from 1 April 2024 in line with the Real Living Wage.
The results of these initiatives are showcased in our recent ‘Pulse 
annual’ employee survey results, where we were pleased to see that all our wellbeing scores improved year on year. Highlights are set out below.
Our aim 15  is to enhance the health and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and local communities.  
This is achieved through the innovative programmes, partnerships and offers at bp.
Enhance wellbeing
~69,000
employees with 
access to financial wellbeing support26%
increase in our global wellbeing platform usage 
~9,000
employees enrolled  
with Headspace ~180,000
views of our global wellbeing guides 

112
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Wider workforce in 2023 
Element Policy features for the wider workforce Comparison with executive director remuneration
Salary Salary is the basis for a competitive total reward package for 
all
 
employees, and we conduct an annual salary review for all 
non-unionized employees. 
In setting pay budgets each year, we assess how employee pay 
is
 
currently positioned relative to market rates, wage inflation, 
forecasts, and business context related to such things as growth plans, workforce turnover and affordability. 
For 2024, most salaried employees will receive a base salary 
increase (effective 1 April 2024). In the UK, the average pay increase has been set at 4.5%. T he salaries of our executive directors form the basis of their 
total remuneration, and we review these salaries annually along the same timelines as the wider workforce. 
Salary increases for executive directors will typically be at or 
below the salary review budgets set for our wider workforce. In
 
specific circumstances, salary increases may be awarded 
above the workforce rate and will have regard for the individual’s performance in the role and market competitiveness. 
As the executive directors were only appointed earlier this year, 
there will be no further salary increases for either of them as part of the annual pay review for 2024. 
Pensions and benefits We operate different pension plans by location and for those parts of our business where market practice is markedly different, e.g. our retail business.
For our population of non-retail employees in the UK, covering 
57% of the UK workforce, we provide a flexible cash benefits allowance of 20% of salary.
In the UK, our hourly retail employees, the majority of whom are 
part-time, are eligible to participate in the National Employment Savings Trust (NEST) where we make contributions and all proceeds are portable with the employee.Executive directors, both current and future appointments, are  to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension aligned with the wider workforce (currently 20% of salary). 
Other than the provisions of car, security and tax preparation 
related benefits, benefit packages are broadly aligned with those of other employees in the UK.
Annual bonus More than half of the eligible global workforce participate in an annual cash bonus plan that multiplies a grade-based target bonus amount by a bp performance factor in the range 0 to 2.
In 2022, the bonus plan was enhanced to include a stronger link 
to individual performance. Select participants may be nominated to receive an uplift to their bonus outcome, reflecting their contribution and impact. 
We operate different bonus plans for those distinct parts of our 
business where market practice is markedly different, such as our trading business.The annual bonus for the executive directors is linked to the same bp performance measures and bp performance factor  as those for the wider workforce.
Executive directors are not entitled to a bonus uplift linked to 
individual performance.
Performance sharesWe operate share plans with three-year vesting for all our senior leaders. Opportunity varies across two broad tiers: group leaders (approximately 300) and senior-level leaders (approximately 4,500). For the group leader population, we operate a hybrid scheme with a mixture of restricted shares and performance shares awarded. The performance shares are aligned to bp’s performance outcomes – similar to the scorecard used for executive directors. 
All employees are eligible to receive ad hoc share awards in 
exceptional circumstances. bp also operates an award-winning global ShareMatch programme which is available to over 17,500 employees in 47 countries.Performance shares for our executive directors are assessed using a bp performance scorecard, similar to the scorecard used for the group leader population. There are no restricted shares for executive directors. 
Executive directors’ performance share awards are subject to 
an additional three-year holding period post-vesting. Executive directors are also expected to build a minimum level of shareholding equal to 5x salary for the CEO and 4.5x salary for the CFO. This minimum holding cannot be sold until two years post-employment.
Recognition energize!, our global recognition platform is open to all employees for peer-to-peer recognition. Recognition may be in the form of a ’thank you’ or points that can be spent on a catalogue of products. We also operate a spot bonus programme where individuals or teams can be nominated to receive a one-off cash award to recognize their achievements.
Senior leaders and our two executive directors fully participate in the programmes (typically by giving recognition). They may receive 
non-financial recognition only through energize!.
Wellbeing All employees have access to mental health support via our employee assistance programme. In addition, Thrive@bp – our global wellbeing platform – is open to all employees and provides access to mental, physical and financial wellbeing support.
In a number of countries, employees have access to a personal wellbeing fund – a sum of money that can be spent on wellbeing 
initiatives. In 2023, this was equal to £1,500 per employee per annum, in the UK.Directors’ remuneration report continued

113
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Executive directors’ pay for 2023
Single figure table – executive directors (audited)a
Murray
Auchinclossb
thousand
2023Bernard 
Looneyb 
thousand 
2023Murray 
Auchincloss 
thousand 
2022 Bernard 
Looney 
thousand 
2022
Salary £1,015 £996 £782 £1,372
Benefits £338 £30 £88 £75
Cash allowance in lieu of pension £190 £149 £117 £206
Annual bonusc£1,839 £0 £1,404 £2,366
Performance sharesd£4,652 £0 £3,037 £6,313
Total remuneration £8,034 £1,175 £5,429 £10,331
Total fixed remuneration £1,543 £1,175 £988 £1,653
Total variable remuneratione£6,491 £0 £4,441 £8,678
Application of malus and clawbackf £(2,979)
Total remuneration (incl. malus and clawback)g£(1,804)
a D ue to rounding, the total may not agree exactly with the sum of the component parts.  
b
 A
s announced on 12 September 2023, Bernard Looney resigned as CEO and stepped down from the board with immediate effect. For 2023, the figures stated in the table reflect the time spent in 
his role as CEO (1 January 2023 to 12 September 2023). Murray Auchincloss was appointed as interim CEO on 12 September 2023, having previously been in position as CFO. 
c
 A
nnual bonus is subject to deferral into shares for three years at a rate of 33%, in line with the 2023 remuneration policy approved by shareholders.
d
 T
he performance share figure for 2023 has been calculated using the average share price in the last three months of 2023 of £4.93 and includes notional dividends accrued up to 16 February 2024. 
For 2022, the performance shares have been restated to reflect the share price on the date of vesting of £4.86 and actual dividends received.
e
 I
n respect of 2023, Bernard Looney did not receive any variable pay awards. He was not entitled to any annual bonus in respect of the financial year and his 2021-23 EDIP award lapsed in full.
f
 I
n line with regulatory requirements for reporting single figure outcomes, the table sets out the value of the malus and clawback applied to Bernard Looney’s variable pay awards in respect of 
awards which have previously been reported in prior year single figure tables. These values are in line with the press release on 13 December 2023 and further detail can be found on page 127 . 
The
 
value for awards subject to clawback has been shown on a net-of-tax basis as per bp’s clawback policy.
g
 F
ollowing the board’s decision on 13 December 2023, Bernard Looney’s outstanding 2022-24 EDIP and 2023-25 EDIP awards also lapsed in full. These have not been included in the table as they 
have not previously been reported in single figure tables as performance periods are still in-flight. For reference, the maximum value of both these awards would have been £14,667k when 
calculated in line with the press release on 13 December 2023. Further details can be found on page 127 . 
Overview of single figure outcomes
Salary 
On 12 September 2023, Murray Auchincloss was appointed as CEO on an interim basis. The committee agreed that his remuneration package should 
be broadly in line with that of his predecessor and his base pay was set at £1.45 million.
Murray has been an advocate of bp’s strategy to transition to an integrated energy company and remains focused on delivering exceptional 
performance – this was clearly evident when he undertook the interim CEO role. The committee believes it was in our shareholders’ interest that Murray’s remuneration was set at a level that appropriately reflected the responsibility and scope of the role, while motivating and retaining him during this interim period, thus ensuring a continued focus on delivering our long-term strategy. The extensive external search we undertook confirmed our view that a base pay of £1.45 million was competitive to lead a company of bp’s size, business complexity and strategic ambition.
Benefits 
Executive directors received car-related benefits, coverage of tax return preparation, security assistance, health and life insurance and medical benefits. 
Transitional changes to the car-related benefit provided to Murray Auchincloss, as approved by the committee, is the primary reason for the increase 
in
 
the value of taxable benefits compared with 2022. The cost of this benefit is expected to fall in 2024.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension
Upon appointment to the board in 2020, Murray’s cash allowance in lieu of pension was aligned to the flexible benefit allowance for the majority of
 
the
 
wider UK workforce at that time (15% of salary). 
In the 2023 directors’ remuneration policy, the cash allowance in lieu of pension for executive directors was changed to 20% of salary (in line with the wider workforce). This amendment to our policy was supported by shareholders and approved at the 2023 AGM with a vote of 94%. From the 2023 AGM, Murray’s cash allowance was therefore adjusted to 20% of salary. As disclosed in last year’s report, Bernard Looney’s allowance remained unchanged at 15% of salary. 

114
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Committee judgement for 
fatalities  
- 0.05 79.5% of maximumFormulaic scorecard outcome 
1.64 out of 2.00Final scorecard outcome1.59 out of 2.00Formulaic score 1.64 out of 2.0Safety and 
sustainability
0.41Operations  
0.24Financials  
0.99Formulaic score 
1.64 out of 2.0
Safety and 
sustainability (30% weight)
Operations 
(20% weight)
Financials 
(50% weight)Measures Outcome Weighting Threshold (0) Target (1) Maximum (2) + = +
Sustainable emissions 
reductions  (million 
tonnes) 
Convenience & EV gross margin % growth
Adjusted EBITDATier 1 process safety 
events  
Tier 2 process safety events
 
bp-operated reliability and availability 
Adjusted free cash 
flow
 12 0
47
0
94.5%
0
$12.6bn
0<7.77 
0
4%
0
$40.7bn
015%
10%
25%15%
10%
25%100.075
39
0.075
95.5%
0.1
$13.6bn
0.2580.15
31
0.15
96.4%
0.2
$14.6bn
0.57.970.15
10%
0.1
$42.2bn
0.258.270.3
16%
0.2
$43.7bn
0.539 (tier 1: 9, tier 2: 30)
95.7%
$15.1bn7.973
10.6%
$43.67bn
a0.130.26
0.15
0.11
0.50
0.49Annual bonus
The committee has considered the approach that should be taken in relation to Murray’s annual bonus award for 2023. In line with our remuneration 
policy, awards are typically calculated using salary as at year-end. However, given Murray’s relatively short tenure as interim CEO during the performance period, the committee felt it would be appropriate to base his award on a pro-rated salary. 
In relation to the deferral requirement, the committee reviewed Murray’s shareholding during the year to assess if the minimum shareholding 
requirement had been met. Given that his bonus award is based on a pro-rated salary, it was considered appropriate to calculate his shareholding on
 
the
 
same basis. As of 16 February 2024, the CEO achieved a shareholding of 6.4x salary (based on a pro-rated salary). This is above the minimum 
shareholding requirement for the CEO of 5x salary and his 2023 award will therefore be subject to a deferral rate of 33%. 
2023 annual bonus scorecard and outcome
For 2023, the committee assessed performance against a bonus scorecard of seven measures across three categories: safety and sustainability, operations and financials. These measures align with our strategy (see page 12 ) and were set out under the terms of our 2023 policy.
a A djusted EBITDA for bonus calculation purposes ($43.67bn) differs from the figure reported elsewhere in the bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 ($43.71bn) because of accounting adjustments 
made after the committee’s bonus outcome decisions.

020406080
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
 Tier 1 process safety events  Tier 2 process safety eventsProcess safety events over last five years
115
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Safety performance  as measured by tier 1 and 2 process safety events, 
was strong with the mechanical outcome achieving between target and 
maximum performance. The committee’s review of safety performance is
 
detailed below and in the safety and sustainability committee (S&SC) 
report on page 103 .
Sustainable emissions reductions (SER)  of 7.973mte cumulative (2023 
vs. 2017) met target for the fourth year running, demonstrating consistent progress against our aim 1. At the start of the year bp identified opportunities for emission reductions based on planned activity totalling 704kt in 2023. However, an SER target of 900kt was set to continue embedding a net zero mindset and ownership of emissions performance across the operating entities. This approach led our sites to review existing activity sets and identify projects with SER potential that were not in existing plans. Key contributions across bp’s portfolio included Whiting and Cherry Point refineries switching to low carbon power (255kt), bpx energy projects including electrification, vapour recovery and centralized processing in the Permian and Eagle Ford (240 kt), and a focus on flare system and practices improvements across production sites (102kt).
Reliability and availability is a measure of bp-operated refining 
availability and bp-operated plant reliability with a performance outcome of 95.7% – slightly above target. Refining availability strengthened  year-on-year to 96.1% (94.5% in 2022). Plant reliability was below the
 
target outcome at 95.0%. Convenience & EV gross margin % growth (v. 2022) was above target with an outcome of 10.6%. Over the period, our EV energy sales grew by 150% and our convenience gross margin, excluding TravelCenters of America and adjusted for other portfolio changes at constant foreign exchange, was up by 9%.
Financial performance, as measured by adjusted free cash flow and 
adjusted EBITDA , was strong. bp generated adjusted free cash flow of 
$15.1 billion, which resulted in the maximum outcome. Similarly, adjusted EBITDA performance was strong with an outcome of $43.67 billion, slightly below our maximum target. Our targets are environment-adjusted at year end and the revised targets for adjusted free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA were $13.6 billion and $42.2 billion respectively. 
Overall outcome 
The formulaic score for the 2023 annual bonus was 1.64 out of 2.00 (82%
 
of maximum).
The committee, advised by the S&SC, considered the circumstances of all
 
of the fatalities and resolved to apply a downward adjustment to the 
annual bonus for one of the fatalities (see ‘A focus on safety’ below). 
The formulaic score has therefore been reduced by 5 points from 1.64 
to
 
1.59 (79.5% of maximum) for all plan participants. 
A focus on safety
Safety comes first at bp and avoiding safety incidents within the workforce is paramount. Our goal is to eliminate tier 1 process safety events, fatalities and life-changing injuries. 
Each year the committee, with advice from the S&SC, reviews the 
formulaic outcome of the annual bonus scorecard against broader contextual factors when determining the final performance outcome. As
 
part of this holistic review, careful consideration is given to annual 
and long-term safety performance, any major safety incidents and any workforce fatalities during the year.
Process safety performance
To improve the focus on tier 1 process safety events, the committee determined that for the 2023 annual bonus scorecard tier 1 and tier 2 events would be measured independently rather than a combined measure. The committee is pleased to report that both tier 1 and tier 2 process safety events – particularly tier 1 – were lower than prior years. 
The overall strong process safety performance resulted in a score of 
87.5% of maximum for this element of the annual bonus scorecard. With the overall trend in process safety performance over time being positive, the committee felt this outcome was fair.Impact of fatalities
In 2023, three people lost their lives while working for bp – a contractor within bpx energy and two employees from our newly acquired TravelCenters of America business. Our thoughts, as ever, are with their family, friends and co-workers.
Alongside the S&SC, the committee reflected on the fatalities that 
occurred during the year. While the fatality in bpx energy was within bp’s
 
ultimate responsibility, the incident was contractor led and under 
a
 
third party management system. However, after careful consideration 
the committee concluded that the fatality should directly impact the annual bonus. 
TravelCenters of America was acquired mid 2023 and is not fully 
integrated into bp – either from a safety culture or remuneration perspective (employees there do not participate in the bp annual cash bonus plan). The committee has therefore determined that applying a
 
discretionary adjustment to all bp employees for the fatalities in 
TravelCenters of America would not be appropriate at this time. This is consistent with our approach to target setting more generally for recent acquisitions, where a transition period normally applies. Details on the TravelCenters of America acquisition are provided on page 20 . 
Reflective of the fatality in our bpx energy business, the overall formulaic outcome of 1.64 has been reduced by 5 points (3%), resulting in an overall performance outcome of 1.59. This adjustment has been applied to all participants of the bp annual cash bonus plan to emphasize our collective responsibility with regard to safety. 
We hope to see fatalities eliminated. Nevertheless, in response to 
shareholder feedback, a framework has been developed to guide the committee’s decisions regarding the impact of fatalities on incentive outcomes. This new framework will formally take effect from 2024 (the committee has applied its principles when determining 2023 outcomes). Further detail on the framework has been provided in the implementation section of this report (see page 122 ).

116
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
2021-23 performance share plan scorecard and outcome
2021-23 performance share awards were granted under the executive directors’ incentive plan (EDIP). The scorecard for this cycle consists of relative 
total shareholder return (rTSR) (20% weighting), return on average capital employed (ROACE) (20% weighting), adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR (20% weighting) and strategic progress (40% weighting).
2021-23 performance share plan scorecard (audited)
These measures were set under the terms of our 2020 policy.
Formulaic
vesting
75.0%Underpin: Committee review of absolute shareholder returns, long-term safety and environmental performance, low carbon and climate change considerations. 
No adjustmentFinal vesting after committee 
judgement 
75.0%rTSR  
5.0%ROACE  
20.0%Adjusted EBIDA per 
share CAGR 
20.0%Strategic  progress 
30.0%Formulaic  
vesting
75.0%+ + = +
Relative TSR 
During the performance period, bp’s rTSR performance placed it fourth out of eight in the comparator group which resulted in 25% of this measure 
vesting. 
Financials 
Performance for ROACE, at 20.6% over the period, was strong and resulted in maximum vesting of this measure. Similarly, adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR performance was strong, achieving 15.8%. As part of the review of outcomes, the committee considers the impact of the trading environment with respect to ROACE outcomes, and in respect of adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR the committee review share buyback activity outside of plan during the performance period. It determined that no further adjustments should be made for the 2021-23 cycle. rTSR 
(20% weight)
Financials
(40% weight)Measures Outcome WeightingThreshold performanceMaximum performance
Adjusted EBIDA  
per share CAGR
D
emonstrate 
track record, scale 
and value in low carbon energy
Accelerate growth 
in convenience and mobilityrTSR Fourth
4.6%20.0%
• b p’s hydrocarbon business performed well, with 
underlying measures on-track to 2025 targets. 
•
 b
p met its first goal under aim 4 (deployed methane 
measurement).
•
 S
trong performance against renewable pipeline (GW) 
objectives, with pipeline more than doubling over the 
period. 
•
 C
urrently tracking behind 2025 target for the 
developed renewables measure. 
•
 O
n-track to achieve convenience margin  growth and 
strategic convenience sites  objectives. 
•
 P
erformance in Castrol  tracking lower than expected. 20.0%
13.3%
13.3%First
6.6%
OutcomeOutcome
Outcome40.0%5.0%
30.0%
Formulaic vestingStrategic 
progress(40% weight)Deliver value 
through resilient hydrocarbon business13.3%
Qualitative and  
quantitative assessment  
by the committee,
s
ee pages 117 to 118 .
75.0% out of 100.0%ROACE  
(average 2021-23)9
.7% 20.0% 10.7%5.0%Fourth
15.8%
20.0%20.6%5.0%
20.0 %

 2025 
target 2021 2022 2023
6.82 6.07 5.78 6.0Upstream unit 
production 
costs ($/boe)  
bp-operated 
upstream plant 
reliab ility (%)  94.0 96.0 95.0 96.0
bp-operated 
reﬁning 
availab ility (%) 94.8 94.5 96.1 96.0
2025 
target 2021 2022 2023
4.4 5.8 6.2 20Developed 
renewables to FID 
(GW)
Renewables 
pipeline (GW)23.1 37.2 58.3
117
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 3731. Deliver value through a resilient hydrocarbon business 
Unit production costs 
Unit production costs  have reduced by 
15% over the three-year period, from 
$6.82/boe in 2021 to $5.78/boe in 2023. This currently places bp ahead of our 2025 target of $6.00/boe by 2025. 
This performance has largely been driven 
by portfolio high grading and efficiency gains. Looking ahead to 2025, the aim  is to maintain a production cost at ~$6.00/boe – which is ambitious given the challenges in the current market. 
Plant reliability 
For 2023, hydrocarbon plant reliability  
was 95.0% which was a slight decline from our 2022 high-point of 96.0%. 
2. Demonstrate track record, scale and value in low carbon energy 
During the year, bp has continued to make progress against our low carbon energy strategic pillar. Focus remains on the transition growth engines as bp works towards achieving its 2025 targets.
Developed renewables to FID
During the performance period we have delivered 2.9GW to FID (bp net), with main
 
contributions from Lightsource 
bp
 
(50% JV) and the 100% bp solar 
pipeline (Cygnus). Driven by supply chain challenges in the US and the principle of
 
value over volume, Lightsource bp 
has
 
reduced the number of delivered 
sanctioned projects in 2023. In US offshore wind, given challenging Overview of strategic progress
Strategic progress is determined using a balance of quantitative and qualitative judgement against bp’s three strategic pillars: to deliver value
 
through a resilient hydrocarbon business; to demonstrate track record, scale and value in low carbon energy, and; to accelerate growth 
in
 
convenience and mobility. The committee assesses performance against objectives within these pillars and takes into account the broader 
stakeholder experience during the performance period. 
During our review of strategic progress, the committee was mindful of bp’s mid-cycle announcement in February 2023 updating its transition 
strategy. These updates were strongly supported by the board and the committee. 
On balance, the committee determined that the strategic progress measure should result in 75% of maximum vesting.Strategic progress 
But, bp remains on track to reach its 
2025
 
target and continues to be focused 
on delivering major projects  with 
higher
 
reliability. 
Refining availability 
Refining availability was 96.1% in 2023, compared to 94.5% in 2022 and slightly above the 2025 target of ~96%. During the period, we have seen strong performance across the sites with focus on continuously enhancing availability through ongoing improvement initiatives and safely delivering turnaround events. 
macroeconomic conditions we have 
restructured our Beacon and Empire projects taking full ownership of Beacon and transferring Empire ownership to Equinor. Slower pace in solar FIDs and US restructuring in relation to offshore wind resulted in slower GW to FID progression.
Renewables pipeline
bp has materially scaled the renewables businesses with the pipeline of projects increasing from 10.9GW (end of 2020) to 58.3GW (end of 2023). bp’s offshore wind organization pipeline was built from a zero base and the pipeline has doubled in
 
recent years – with a total potential 
generating capacity of 4GW in Germany.

 2025 
target 2021 2022 2023
11 9 9 10Convenience gross 
margin growth (%)a 
Strategic 
convenience sites   2,150 2,400 2,850 3,000
Castrol  
performance ($bn)6.8 6.9 7.0 7.5
118
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Other vesting considerations
Along with the results from the scorecard measures, the committee considers an ’underpin’ to the formulaic outcome in order to determine the final 
vesting percentage. The underpin broadens our performance assessment, allowing us to consider vesting outcomes with overall alignment to absolute shareholder returns, environmental and safety factors and progress in low carbon and climate change matters. Where relevant, we take input from the safety and sustainability committee and the audit committee to deepen and enhance our perspective.
Windfall gains: As part of this holistic review, the committee also considered potential ‘windfall gains’. Last year, the committee applied a downward 
adjustment to the 2020-22 performance share award in response to the fall in share price of 40% from the prior year’s grant. That adjustment was viewed as extraordinary given the pandemic-related circumstances and was not intended to be embedded into the policy. For 2021-23, the grant price was ~4% lower than the share price used for the prior year grant. Therefore, an adjustment for windfall gains was not deemed appropriate for this cycle.
Having considered the above, the committee concluded that the vesting outcome was suitably reflective of the company’s underlying performance and 
the experience of stakeholders overall. The committee therefore agreed it was not necessary to apply discretion to the out-turns and approved the formulaic vesting of 75% for the 2021-23 performance share awards. This decision yields the outcomes shown in the table below. The scorecard detail is shown on page 116 . 
2021-23 performance share plan outcome (audited)
Shares 
awardedUnvested shares 
following 
application of 
performance 
factorValue of unvested 
shares following 
application of 
performance 
factor Impact of
share price
changeb
Murray Auchincloss 1,122,009 943,565 £4,651,775 £1,811,6453. Accelerate growth in convenience and mobility 
Convenience gross margin growth 
For 2021-23, convenience gross margin growth was an average of 9% and remains on track to achieve the 2025 target of 10%.
During the period, bp extended the 
convenience partnership with Lekkerland and Auchan to deliver services at retail sites in Germany and Poland. 
Strategic convenience sites 
Strategic convenience sites are on track to exceed the 2025 target of 3,000 sites. This has been supported by taking full ownership of Thorntons  in 2021 and the 
acquisition of TravelCenters of America in 2023, which added around 290 sites.Castrol  performance 
During the period, Castrol  has 
strengthened its market leading position in EV fluids. For instance, three out of
 
four of the world’s major vehicle 
manufacturers use Castrol ON  products 
as part of their factor refill. 
This success has been supported by 
investments in our technology centres, e.g. a new EV laboratory in Shanghai, China and a new laboratory in New Jersey, US. 
However, performance to date is tracking 
lower than the 2025 targets. This is partly due to the challenging market environment.
Approach to outstanding awards
Having reflected on our approach to assessing strategic progress as part of the EDIP scorecard, the committee intends to judge this measure primarily through value-driven criteria for outstanding awards. This evaluation will include consideration of the financial performance of the transition growth engines, which has been raised as a key indicator of our strategic progress by shareholders in our recent consultation. 
It is also to be noted that for 2024, the strategic progress measure is to be weighted at 20% of the award (previously 25%) while relative TSR 
will
 
increase from 20% to 25%. For further details on the implementation of our policy for 2024, please refer to pages 119 to 120 . 
a A djusted for other portfolio changes and excludes TravelCenters of America. 
b
 T
hese values reflect the impact of the increase in share price since grant related to the number of shares which are no longer subject to performance conditions, including notional dividends 
accrued up to 16 February 2024. The value of unvested shares not subject to performance conditions reflects the share price changes all shareholders have experienced over the three-year period. For this 2021-23 award cycle, the original grant was calculated based on ordinary share price of £3.01, while the average share price in 4Q 2023 was £4.93. Consequently, the share price gain has increased the initial face value of these awards by approximately 64%.

119
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Policy implementation for 2024 
The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2023 annual general meeting on 27 April 2023. The full policy is displayed on the 
company’s website at bp.com/remuneration . The table below shows how the remuneration policy will be implemented in 2024, alongside a summary 
of key features.
Element Policy feature 2024 implementation
Salary To provide fixed remuneration to reflect the scale and complexity 
of both the business and the role, and to be competitive with the external market.
When setting salaries, the committee considers practice in other 
oil and gas majors as well as European and US companies of a similar size, geographic spread and business dynamic to bp. Percentage increases for executive directors will not exceed that for the wider workforce, other than in specific circumstances identified by the committee (e.g. in response to a substantial change in responsibilities).
Salaries are normally set in the home currency of the executive 
director and are reviewed annually. They may be reviewed at other times where appropriate. •
  U pon appointment to their respective roles, the CEO and CFO’s 
salaries were set as follows:
–
 M
urray Auchincloss (CEO): £1,450,000
–
 K
ate Thomson (CFO): £800,000 
•
 G
iven their recent appointments, executive directors will not 
receive an increase in respect of 2024 as part of our annual 
salary review. 
•
 T
he average increase to our UK salaried staff effective from 
1 April 2024, our annual salary review date, will be 4.5%.
Pensions and benefits Executive directors normally participate in the company retirement plans that operate in their home country.
New appointees from within the bp group retain previously 
accrued benefits related to service prior to appointment as executive director. For their service as a director, cash allowance in lieu of pension will be up to 20% of base salary.
For future appointments, the committee will carefully review any 
retirement benefits to be granted to a new director, taking account of retirement policies across the wider group and any arrangements currently in place.•
 M
urray and Kate’s cash allowance in lieu of pension is 20% 
of
 
base pay (in line with the wider workforce). 
•
 P
rior to their appointment as executive directors, Murray 
received a US deferred pension and Kate received a UK deferred pension. No further value is accrued under either plan.
•
 B
enefits will remain unchanged for 2024 and include car-
related provisions, security assistance, insurance and medical cover. 
Annual bonus Bonus is measured against an annual scorecard. The committee holds discretion to choose the specific measures and the relative weightings adopted in the annual scorecard, to reflect the annual plan as agreed with the board.
Numeric scales are set for each measure, to score outcomes 
relative to targets. A scorecard outcome of 1.0 reflects the target outcome and 2.0 is the maximum outcome.
Target bonus is 112.5% of salary, and maximum bonus is 225% 
of salary.
Half the bonus is paid in cash, and half is deferred into bp shares 
for three years up until the ’minimum shareholding requirement’ is met. At this point, 67% is paid in cash and 33% is paid in bp shares. Dividends (or equivalents, including the value of any reinvestment) may accrue in respect of any deferred shares.
Awards are subject to operationally robust and effective malus 
and clawback provisions as described below.•
 F
or 2024, our scorecard categories will remain unchanged and 
will be assessed against the following: safety and sustainability (30%), operations (20%), and financials (50%).
•
 W
e intend to make two changes to performance measures 
for 2024:
–
 I
ntroduce a more holistic measure focused on growth in 
our
 
transition growth engines financial delivery (transition 
growth engines adjusted EBITDA % growth), in place of the 
convenience & EV margin growth measure.
–
 R
eplace our sustainable emissions reductions measure with 
operated carbon emissions to directly align with our net zero ambition. 
•
 S
ee page 121  for further details on measures for the 2024 
annual bonus. 
•
 F
rom 2024, we are introducing a framework to help guide 
decisions on adjustments to the bonus outcome in relation to
 
fatalities. Further detail has been provided on page 122 .

120
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Element Policy feature 2024 implementation
Performance 
sharesPerformance shares are granted with a three-year performance period, measured against a scorecard.
The committee holds discretion to choose the specific measures 
and the relative weightings adopted in the scorecard, to ensure they are focused on the near-term priorities for delivering the bp strategy in the interests of shareholders.
Annual grants are 500% of salary for the CEO, and 450% of salary 
for any other executive director. Awards will vest in proportion to the outcomes measured through the performance scorecard, subject to any adjustment by the committee.•
  F or our 2024-26 cycle, the scorecard categories will remain 
unchanged from the 2023-25 cycle, although we have amended the weightings. Performance will be assessed against rTSR (25%), ROACE (20%), adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR (20%), ESG (15%) and strategic progress (20%). The award will continue to be subject to an underpin that takes  into consideration in-year safety outcomes and long-term trends in safety outcomes over the performance period.
•
 T
he weighting of strategic progress has been decreased from 
25% to 20%, reflecting feedback from shareholders, and relative TSR will be increased from 20% to 25% of the overall award.
•
 U
nder the ESG measure, we are proposing a cumulative 
reduction % in operated carbon emissions to better align with
 
our strategic ambitions (e.g. aim 1 – net zero by 2050 
or 
sooner). 
•
 T
he 2024-26 awards will be granted based on the average 
closing share price of each calendar day in the 90-day period ending on the date of bp’s 2024 annual general meeting.
•
 A
ny shares that vest will be subject to a three-year post-
vesting holding period.
•
 A
wards are subject to operationally robust and effective malus 
and clawback provisions as described below.
Shareholding requirementCEO to build a shareholding of at least five times salary, and other executive directors four and a half times salary, within five years of appointment.
Executive directors are required to maintain that level for at least 
two years post-employment.•
 M
urray’s shareholding has reached 6.4 times pro-rated salary, 
above his minimum shareholding requirement. See page 125  
for further details. 
•
 K
ate’s shareholding has reached 2.1 times salary. Over the 
next five years, to 2029, Kate will work towards reaching her minimum shareholding requirement of 4.5 times of salary. 
Malus and clawbackOperationally robust and effective malus and clawback provisions apply to our incentive awards. 
Malus provisions may be applied where there is: a material safety or environmental failure; an incorrect award outcome due to 
miscalculation or incorrect information; a restatement due to financial reporting failure or misstatement of audited results; material misconduct; or other exceptional circumstances that the committee considers similar in nature.
Clawback provisions may apply where there is: an incorrect outcome due to miscalculation or incorrect information; a restatement 
due to financial reporting failure or misstatement of audited results; or material misconduct.
Committee flexibilityThe committee has discretion to adjust performance measures and weightings, and to revise the peer group for the rTSR measure.
This discretion allows appropriate re-alignment, throughout the policy term, for changes in the annual plan and for the anticipated 
evolution of the low carbon business environment.
The committee also holds discretion in determining the outcomes for annual bonus and performance shares, allowing them to 
take broad views on alignment with shareholder experience, environmental, societal and other relevant considerations e.g. portfolio changes.

121
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Salary 
As announced on 17 January 2024, Murray Auchincloss was appointed as CEO with immediate effect and his base pay was set at £1.45m (in line with 
his predecessor). As part of the search process for a new CEO, external and internal candidates were considered. During this process, the committee became acutely aware of the challenges of competing in the global talent market (particularly in the US). We also reflected on the nature of the CEO role, which is inherently complex as we continue to drive our strategic transformation. On balance, our market positioning is considered appropriate and suitably reflective of the role. 
Kate Thomson was appointed to the board and as CFO on 2 February 2024. Her base pay has been set at £800,000 (lower than her predecessor). The 
committee felt this was appropriate, balancing her limited experience as a board member and CFO of a FTSE 20 company, with her market positioning and with her proven capability within bp. We will continue to review her salary as she develops within the role, with regard to performance and market competitiveness. As such, adjustments in future years may exceed the percentage accorded the wider workforce for a period. 
For 2024, Murray and Kate will not receive a salary increase as part of our annual pay review. For reference, the average wider workforce increase will 
be
 
4.5% in the UK. 
Measures for the 2024 annual bonus
For 2024, two new measures are being introduced to the scorecard to reflect our strategic priorities for the year – operated carbon emissions and transition growth engines adjusted EBITDA % growth. 
We are replacing our sustainable emissions reductions (SER) measure with operated carbon emissions to better align with our aim 1 – net zero 
operations by 2050 or sooner. This measure incorporates all operated emissions (Scope 1 and 2) and takes into account all activities that contribute to
 
or reduce emissions during the year. This provides a more comprehensive view of our sustainability performance during the year than sustainable 
emissions reductions, which is only measured against interventions taken to reduce emissions in year. Operated carbon emissions is recognized by stakeholders and allows comparability of our performance with those of others in our industry. The committee believes that the introduction of operated carbon emissions will drive the right behaviours in the scorecard by remaining focused on activities impacting emissions during the year. 
Under operations, we are introducing a more holistic transition growth engines adjusted EBITDA % growth measure in place of the convenience & EV 
margin growth measure. This change is reflective of our continued focus on financial delivery within all our transition growth engines and aims to widen the scope of how we assess performance within the scorecard. 
Provided below is a summary of the measures we have chosen for the 2024 annual bonus plan scorecard. The targets are commercially sensitive and 
will be disclosed in the 2024 directors’ remuneration report.
Safety and sustainability
30%
Measures include Weighting
Tier 1 and tier 2 process safety events  (measured separately)15%
Operated carbon emissions 15%Operational
20%
Measures include Weighting
bp-operated reliability and 
availability10%
Transition growth engines adjusted EBITDA % growth10%Financials
50%
Measures include Weighting
Adjusted free cash flow 25%
Earnings (adjusted EBITDA) 25%

122
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Taking into consideration the S&SC’s input, the committee will then apply judgement on the level of adjustment to be applied to the overall 
formulaic  
bonus. 
Treatment of new assets 
As stated above, major acquisitions will be excluded from the framework for an initial period to enable the embedding of bp’s safety culture, operating systems and practices.
For example, it has been agreed that Lightsource bp will be excluded for two years; 2024 and 2025 performance years, based on an acquisition date 
expected in 2024, and TravelCenters of America for three years; 2023, 2024 and 2025 performance years, based on an acquisition date of May 2023. The difference in timeframes between the two is reflective of TravelCenters of America being a complex business with over 20,000 employees and therefore requiring a longer period of time to fully embed bp’s safety culture. Practically, this means that any fatality in Lightsource bp or TravelCenters of America may impact the annual cash bonus plan outcomes for bp cash bonus plan participants from performance year 2026.
Where an acquisition has been excluded for an initial transitionary period, there will still be careful consideration of safety performance within this 
business during the performance period. Where a workforce fatality has occurred, the committee will consider the individual incident – alongside input from the S&SC – and will determine whether a downward adjustment to bonus outcomes for the specific business is appropriate. 
Overriding discretion 
Alongside this framework, the committee will retain the right to exercise discretion and will review the formulaic outcome against broader considerations. While the committee has ultimate discretion with regards to the level of adjustment that will be applied, typically adjustments will be
 
made with reference to the range set out within our framework.
Details of any adjustment based on the framework will be provided in full retrospectively.Influence
The extent to which the incident was within bp’s operational controlForeseen
The extent to which the incident could
 
have been foreseenNature of deficiency
To reflect whether the incident was an isolated versus a systemic deficiencyDirectors’ remuneration report continued
Introduction of framework on fatalities 
It is always our goal to eliminate workforce fatalities. Nevertheless, should such tragic losses occur, from 2024 onwards, a framework is being introduced to help guide decisions regarding the impact of workforce fatalities on the annual bonus scorecard. In developing the framework, the committee listened to shareholder feedback during the 2023 engagement cycle and sought the input of the safety and sustainability committee (S&SC). 
The framework is based on the following guiding principles:
Collective responsibility The entire annual bonus score will typically be adjusted by the same percentage for all participants of the 
plan in the event of a workforce fatality. This is to reinforce that safety is everyone’s priority at bp.
Meaningful adjustment Any reduction will be applied to the overall outcome of the annual bonus scorecard, rather than impacting only the safety elements of the bonus.
Judgement within a frameThe level of adjustment will be a judgement within a range up to a maximum set by reference to the weighting of the safety component of the annual bonus scorecard. There is no value that we would associate with a loss of human life and therefore are not proposing a formulaic policy in such situations.
Treatment of new assetsTo enable the embedding of bp’s safety culture, operating systems and practices, major acquisitions will be excluded for an initial period of time. This will be agreed upfront and allow for a period of transition to bp. 
Application of framework 
The framework will be consulted where there has been any workforce fatality during the year. The committee will seek input from the S&SC, who will provide a view on the individual fatalities. This will broadly include consideration of the following: 

123
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373a N il vesting for fifth place or lower.
b 
 B
ased on the average over 2024, 2025 and 2026. Score to be based on straight-line interpolation between threshold and maximum. Adjustments may be required in certain circumstances. 
The external environment to be a considered judgement in the final outcome.
c 
 T
argets will be adjusted for mergers, acquisitions and disposals outside of plan. The committee may consider share buyback activity before making a final judgement.
d
 S
cope 1 and 2 GHG emission reductions versus 2019 baseline from operated carbon emission including portfolio change. rTSR  
25%Financials  
20% 20%Environmental, social  
and governance 
15%Strategic progress  
20%Measures for the 2024-26 performance shares (EDIP) 
Provided below is a summary of the measures we have chosen for the 2024-26 performance share plan. The categories remain unchanged from the 
prior year, however the weighting on strategic progress has reduced from 25% to 20% following shareholder feedback. The weighting on relative TSR has increased from 20% to 25%, providing further alignment between executive directors and the wider shareholder experience. 
Under our ESG category, we are proposing to introduce a cumulative reduction % in operated carbon emissions measure. This is to provide direct 
alignment with bp’s net zero ambition so that all operated emissions are captured. The weighting will remain unchanged at 15% to ensure a meaningful percentage of the EDIP is focused on operational emissions reduction and performance. 
For strategic progress, as referenced in the chair’s statement, the committee has reflected on how performance will be assessed under this measure. 
While the strategic pillars remain unchanged, and following feedback from shareholders, a greater focus will be placed on value-driven objectives and financial resilience within our transition growth engines. In assessing final strategic progress outcomes, a holistic review of performance will be undertaken and outcomes will be aligned with the overall shareholder experience. 
Peer group of seven companies: Chevron, Eni, Equinor, ExxonMobil, Repsol, Shell and TotalEnergies (and bp)
aROACE (average 2024-26)
bAdjusted EBIDA per share CAGR
cCumulative reduction % in operated carbon emissions
dWeighting of measures subject to remuneration committee judgement:
•
 D
eliver value through 
a resilient hydrocarbon 
business.
•
 D
emonstrate track 
record, scale and value in low carbon energy.
•
 A
ccelerate growth 
in convenience and mobility.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 10%25%50%75%100%
rTSR ranking Vesting % for each element
Below
15.7%16.2% 16.7% 17.2% Above
17.7%0%25%50%75%100%
ROACEVesting % for each element
Adjusted EBIDA per share CAGRBelow
9.3%9.8% 10.3% 10.8% Above
11.3%0%25%50%75%100%Vesting % for each element
Cumulative reduction % in 
operated carbon emissionsBelow
39%40% 41% 42% Above
43%0%25%50%75%100%Vesting % for each element
• U nderpin will take into account safety outcomes prior to determining final vesting percentage.
•
 R
emuneration committee discretion will reflect shareholder experience, environment, societal and other inputs.
•
 R
obust malus and clawback may apply in certain circumstances.

8 7 6 5 4 3 2 10%25%50%75%100%
rTSR rankingVesting % for each element
Below
13.1%13.35% 13.60% 13.85% Above
14.1%0%25%50%75%100%
ROACEVesting % for each element
Adjusted EBIDA per share CAGRBelow
7.7%8.20% 8.70% 9.20% Above
9.7%0%25%50%75%100%Vesting % for each element
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 10%25%50%75%100%
rTSR ranking Vesting % for each element
Below
20.2%20.7% 21.2% 21.7% Above
22.2%0%25%50%75%100%
ROACEVesting % for each element
Adjusted EBIDA per share CAGRBelow
12.5%13.0% 13.5% 14.0% Above
14.5%0%25%50%75%100%Vesting % for each element
Net zeroBelow
12%13% 14% 15% Above
16%0%25%50%75%100%Vesting % for each element
124
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Having reflected on the counsel received from shareholders, we disclose below the measures and weightings for each of our in-flight awards. 
rTSR  
20%Financials  
20% 20%Strategic progress 
40%Measures for 2022-24 performance shares
Peer group of seven 
companies: Chevron, Eni, Equinor, ExxonMobil, Repsol, Shell and TotalEnergies (and bp)rTSR  
 
20%
ROACE  (average 2023-25)Financialsa 
 
20%
Adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR20%
Net zero across entire bp operations by 2050 (Scope 1 + 2)Environmental, social 
and governanceb 
 
15%
Weighting of measures 
subject to remuneration committee judgement:
•
 D
eliver value through 
a resilient hydrocarbon 
business.
•
 D
emonstrate track 
record, scale and value in low carbon energy.
•
 A
ccelerate growth 
in convenience and mobility.
See page 24 for key performance indicators related to the strategic progress measures.Strategic progress 
 
25%Measures for 2023-25 performance shares Directors’ remuneration report continued
a F or the 2023-25 performance shares, the targets for ROACE and adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR were incorrectly reported in the 2022 directors’ remuneration report. These figures have been 
updated to reflect the actual targets agreed by the committee last year. 
b
 S
cope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reductions versus 2019 baseline from permanent operational interventions, excluding reductions associated with portfolio changes.Peer group of seven companies: Chevron, Eni, Equinor, ExxonMobil, Repsol, Shell and TotalEnergies (and bp)ROACE  (average 2022-24)Adjusted EBIDA per  share CAGRWeighting of measures subject to remuneration committee judgement:
•
 D
eliver value through a resilient 
hydrocarbon business.
•
 D
emonstrate track record, scale 
and value in low carbon energy.
•
 A
ccelerate growth in 
convenience and mobility. 
See page 24  for key performance 
indicators related to the strategic 
progress measures.
Given the fluidity of our strategy and ever changing energy environment, the committee intends to review strategic progress primarily through value-driven criteria for outstanding awards. See page
 
118 for further detail. 

125
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Stewardship and executive director interests
We believe that our executive directors should build and maintain a material interest in the company. Our policy therefore requires the CEO and CFO to 
build a personal shareholding of five times and four and a half times, respectively, their salary within five years of their appointment. They are expected to maintain this level of personal shareholdings for two years post-employment.
Directors’ shareholdings and aggregated interests (audited)
The table below details the personal shareholdings of each executive director. These figures include all beneficial and non-beneficial ownership of shares of bp (or calculated equivalents) that have been disclosed to the company. Murray Auchincloss has met the minimum shareholding requirement under the policy. Kate Thomson is building towards the policy requirement that applies five years from her date of appointment, 2 February 2024. The committee has reviewed and confirmed this position and will continue to monitor compliance with this policy. 
Directors’ 
ordinary 
shares or 
equivalents at 
16 Feb 2024Aggregated interests at 16 Feb 2024, all plans
Current 
shareholding
for MSRbValue of current
shareholdingc,
£Multiple 
of salary
achieveddUnvested awards not subject 
to performance conditionsUnvested awards subject 
to performance 
conditions
SharesaOptions Shares Options
Murray Auchinclosse793,786 1,417,533 155,872 1,655,458 — 1,396,411 6,591,060 6.4
Kate Thomson 192,358 294,530 500,000 161,950 — 348,458 1,644,722 2.1
Bernard Looneyf1,348,866 — — — — 1,348,866 6,366,648 4.4
a I ncludes deferred and restricted shares, and performance shares prior to application of the performance factor. 
b
 I
ncludes ordinary shares or equivalents and unvested awards not subject to performance conditions on a net-of-tax basis, excluding dividends. 
c
 B
ased on ordinary share price at 16 February 2024 of £4.72.
d
 A
s described on page 114 , a pro-rata salary has been used to calculate the multiple of salary achieved for Murray Auchincloss.
e
 I
ncludes interests of a person closely associated with Murray Auchincloss.
f
 B
ernard Looney stepped down from the board on 12 September 2023. His interest in shares is shown up to 31 December 2023. He is required to hold his in-employment shareholding guideline, 
or actual shareholding if lower, for two years post-cessation of employment, as required by the shareholder approved-remuneration policy. His multiple of salary achieved reduced from the figure reported in the 2022 DRR due to share price movements and the impact of forfeited awards. See page 127  for further details. 
Executive directors have additional interests in performance, restricted and deferred bonus shares. These interests are shown in aggregate in the 
table above, and by plan in the tables below. For performance shares, the figures reflect maximum possible vesting levels (excluding the addition of
 
reinvested dividends) even though the actual number of shares that vest will depend on the extent to which performance conditions are satisfied.
Performance shares (audited)
Share element interests
Potential maximum performance sharesaInterests to vest in 2024
Performance 
periodDate of 
award of 
performance 
sharesAt 1 Jan 
2023Awarded 
2023Lapsed 
2023At 31 Dec 
2023Number of 
ordinary 
shares due 
to vestVesting 
dateFace value
 of awardb, 
£
Murray Auchincloss 2021-23c1 Jun 2021 1,122,009 — — 1,122,009 943,565 Jun 2024 —
2022-24d26 May 2022 937,500 — — 937,500 —  May 2025 —
2023-25d2 May 2023 — 717,958 — 717,958 — May 2026 3,503,635
Bernard Looneye2021-23 1 Jun 2021 2,218,853 — 2,218,853 — — n/a —
2022-24 26 May 2022 1,813,175 — 1,813,175 — — n/a —
2023-25 2 May 2023 — 1,368,828 1,368,828 — — n/a 6,679,881
a F or awards under the 2021-23 plans performance conditions were measured 20% on TSR relative to Chevron, ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ENI, Equinor and Repsol ('comparator companies') over three 
years, 20% ROACE averaged over performance period, 20% adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR measured versus June 2020 and 40% on strategic progress assessed over the performance period. 
For awards under the 2022-24 plans performance conditions are measured 20% on TSR relative to the comparator companies over three years, 20% ROACE averaged over the performance period, 20% adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR measured versus year ended June 2020 and 40% on strategic progress assessed over the performance period. For awards under the 2023-25 plans performance conditions are measured 15% on our aim 1 net zero ambition, 20% on TSR relative to the comparator companies over three years, 20% ROACE averaged over the performance period, 20% adjusted EBIDA per share CAGR measured versus year ended June 2020 and 25% on strategic progress assessed over the performance period.  Since 2010, vesting of the performance shares under EDIP has been subject to a safety underpin. If the committee assesses that there has been a material deterioration in safety performance, or there have been major incidents, either of which reveal underlying weaknesses in safety management, then it may conclude that shares should vest only in part, or not at all. In reaching its conclusion, the committee obtains advice from the safety and sustainability committee. Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b
 T
he face value of awards granted during 2023 have been calculated using market prices of ordinary shares at closing on the date of the award, as follows; £4.88 on 2 May 2023.
c
 R
epresents unvested shares, which will vest during 2024 but are not subject to further performance conditions, achieved under rules of the plan and includes notional dividends accrued up to 
16 February 2024. Murray's award is due to vest on 3 June 2024, three years after the date of award. The average share price during 4Q 2023 was £4.93 for each share. The amount reported as 2023 income on the single figure table is therefore £4.652m for Murray. 
d
 M
inimum vesting under these awards (below threshold performance) is 0%. At threshold performance of each measure, vesting would be 5% of maximum for 2022-24 and 2023-25. The 2024 
performance share award under EDIP is expected to be made following the conclusion of the 2024 annual general meeting. 
e
 B
ernard Looney stepped down from the board on 12 September 2023. His interest in shares is shown up to 31 December 2023. 

126
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Restricted shares (audited)
Share element interests
Number of restricted shares
Restricted 
periodDate of 
award of 
restricted 
sharesAt 1 Jan
 2023Awarded 
2023At 31 Dec 
2023Face value
 of awarda, 
£
Murray Auchincloss 2018-22bc20 Mar 2018 43,170 — — —
2020-22cd28 Aug 2020 4,840 — — —
2021-23d25 Mar 2021 21,277 — 21,277 —
2021-23d16 Jun 2021 10,485 — 10,485 —
2022-24d22 Mar 2022 10,066 — 10,066 —
2022-24d17 Jun 2022 11,565 — 11,565 —
2023-25d7 Jun 2023 — 8,630 8,630 40,906
a T he face value of awards granted during 2023 have been calculated using market prices of ordinary shares at closing on the date of the award, as follows; £4.74 on 7 June 2023. 
b
 A
ward made under the Restricted Share Plan II prior to appointment as a director. 
c
 A
wards vested and were released on 15 February 2023. 
d
 I
nterests of person closely associated with Murray Auchincloss.
Deferred shares (audited)
Deferred share element interests
Potential maximum deferred shares
Bonus 
yearRestricted 
periodDate of award of 
deferred sharesAt 1 Jan
 2023Awarded 
2023Lapsed 
2023At 31 Dec 
2023Face value 
of awarda, 
£
Murray Auchincloss 2021 2022-24b16 Feb 2022 164,569 — — 164,569 —
2021 2022-24c22 Mar 2022 7,046 — — 4,698 —
2022 2023-25c21 Mar 2023 — 10,761 — 10,761 54,128
2022 2023-25b2 May 2023 — 87,584 — 87,584 427,410
Bernard Looneyd2021 2022-24 16 Feb 2022 292,902 — 292,902 — —
2022 2023-25 2 May 2023 — 147,567 147,567 — 720,127
a T he face value of awards granted during 2023 have been calculated using market prices of ordinary shares at closing on the dates of the awards, as follows; £5.03 on 21 March 2023 and £4.88 on 
2 May 2023.
b
 T
here is no identified minimum vesting threshold level. The 2023 bonus year deferred shares award under EDIP is expected to be made following the conclusion of the 2024 annual general meeting. 
c
 I
nterests of person closely associated with Murray Auchincloss. Award made under the IST Deferred Annual Bonus Plan. 
d
 B
ernard Looney stepped down from the board on 12 September 2023. His interest in shares is shown up to 31 December 2023. 
Share interests in share option plans (audited)
In common with many of our UK employees, executive directors may hold options under the bp group Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme as shown 
below. These options are not subject to performance conditions.
Option typeAt 1 Jan 
2023Awarded 
2023Exercised 
2023Lapsed 
2023At 31 Dec 
2023aOption 
priceMarket 
price at 
date of 
exerciseDate from 
which first 
exercisable Expiry date
Murray Auchincloss SAYEb3,614 — 3,614 — — £2.49 £5.03 01 Sep 2023 28 Feb 2024
SAYEb3,571 — — — 3,571 £2.52 — 01 Sep 2024 28 Feb 2025
Reinvent bpb150,000 — — — 150,000 £3.15 — 11 Mar 2025 10 Mar 2031
SAYEb— 2,301 — — 2,301 £3.91 — 01 Sep 2026 28 Feb 2027
Bernard LooneycSAYE 6,024 — — 6,024 — £2.49 — n/a n/a
SAYE 5,952 — — 5,952 — £2.52 — n/a n/a
a T he closing market price of an ordinary share on 29 December 2023 was £4.66. During 2023 the highest market price was £5.68, and the lowest market price was £4.50.
b
 I
nterests of person closely associated with Murray Auchincloss.
c
 B
ernard Looney stepped down from the board on 12 September 2023. His interest in options is shown up to 31 December 2023. 
Bernard Looney had, and Murray Auchincloss has, no interests in bp preference shares, debentures or option plans (other than as listed above), 
and neither did, nor do, they have interests in shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
Directors and leadership team
No directors or other leadership team members own more than 1% of the shares in issue. At 16 February 2024, our directors and leadership team members collectively held interests of 6,225,244 ordinary shares or their calculated equivalents, 3,654,106 restricted share units (with or without conditions) or their calculated equivalents, 5,588,712 performance shares or their calculated equivalents and 6,935,858 options over ordinary shares or their calculated equivalents, under bp group share option schemes.

127
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Payments to past directors and for loss of office 
Departure terms for Bernard Looney (audited) 
As set out elsewhere in the report, Bernard Looney stepped down from the board with immediate effect on 12 September 2023. After due 
consideration, the board concluded that Bernard Looney’s actions amounted to serious misconduct and he was dismissed without notice effective 13 December 2023. This decision had the effect of bringing his notice period to an immediate end. 
The following provides further detail on his remuneration arrangements
a: 
Salary and benefits In line with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy, Bernard Looney continued to receive salary, cash allowance 
in lieu of pension and benefits during the period 12 September 2023 to 13 December 2023 with a total value of £424,000.
On 13 December 2023 his notice period came to an immediate end and he ceased to be entitled to any form of fixed 
pay, including cash allowance in lieu of pension, in respect of the period from this date onwards.
2023 annual bonus Bernard Looney will not receive an annual bonus in respect of the 2023 financial year.
Taking into account the performance outcome of 79.5% of maximum, this would have amounted to £2,591,000 for the 
full year (against the maximum of £3,258,000 included in the 13 December 2023 announcement).
Outstanding share awards Performance share awards
Bernard Looney’s unvested performance share awards under the EDIP – 2022-24 and 2023-25 – lapsed in full on cessation of employment. This amounts to a maximum value of £14,667,000.
The performance share awards under the 2021-23 EDIP also lapsed in full. Taking into account the performance 
outcome of 75% of maximum, this would have amounted to £7,671,000 for the performance period (against the maximum of £10,228,000 that was included in the 13 December 2023 announcement for this award). 
Deferred bonus awards
Bernard Looney’s unvested deferred annual bonus share awards under the EDIP – from the 2021 and 2022 annual 
bonus awards – lapsed in full on cessation of employment. This amounts to £2,030,000.
Note, these totals do not take into consideration any accrued dividends over the period. For the 2021-23 EDIP award, 
this would have amounted to £930,000.
Recovery provisions Reflecting the decision by the board that Bernard Looney should not retain any variable pay relating to service following the date of the misleading assurances he gave to the board (July 2022), discretionary clawback has been applied to the following awards:
2022 annual bonus
Bernard Looney has repaid 50% of the cash portion of the annual bonus paid to him in respect of the financial year 
2022 (net of tax). This amounts to £420,000.
2020-22 performance share awards
Bernard Looney has forfeited 6/36ths of his shares that vested in August 2023 from the 2020-22 performance share 
plan under the EDIP (net of tax). This amounts to £529,000.
In practice, clawback has been enforced by reducing the number of the former CEO’s vested shares currently in the 
holding period from the 2020-22 EDIP award.
a I n line with the press release on 13 December 2023, the values of the share awards have been calculated using the closing price on 12 December 2023 of £4.61. All values are before tax unless 
stated otherwise. Figures have been rounded to the nearest thousand and, as such, totals may not agree exactly with the sum of the component parts. 
Bernard Looney is required to hold his in-employment shareholding guideline, or actual shareholding if lower, for two years post-cessation of employment, as required by the shareholder-approved remuneration policy.
His separation terms were made in line with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy. He did not receive any other payments in relation to the 
termination of his employment.
Post-employment benefits (audited)
Bob Dudley and Brian Gilvary were provided with tax return preparation support amounting to £4,018 and £12,000 respectively and Bob Dudley was provided with corporate hospitality amounting to £1,091. 
We made no other payments within the scope of the disclosure requirements to any past director of bp during 2023 (we have no de minimis threshold 
for such disclosures).

128
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
Chair and non-executive director outcomes and interests
Fee structure
The table below shows the fee structure for the chair and non-executive directors (NEDs). The chair is not eligible for committee chairship and 
membership fees.
As provided for under the 2023 policy, fee levels are reviewed annually alongside the wider workforce salaries and any changes that are agreed are put 
into effect from 1 April each year. Taking all factors into consideration, for 2024 the board agreed to implement a 4.5% increase to the base fee for its NEDs and for the senior independent director, aligned to the salary increase budget for the UK wider workforce. Oversight and determination of the fees payable to the chair falls to the remuneration committee, which agreed to align the percentage increase of the chair's fee with the other non-executive board members.
Following board and remuneration committee approval, the remuneration arrangements for the chair and NEDs will be adjusted with effect from 
1 April 2024 as per the below table. 
£ thousand per annum2024/25 
fees2023/24
 fees
Chair 854 817
Senior independent directora174.5 167
Board member 125.5 120
Audit, remuneration and safety and sustainability committees chairship feesb35 35
Committee membership fee 20 20
a T he senior independent director is eligible for committee chairship and membership fees, but has waived her entitlement to the fee for membership of the people and governance committee. 
Fee includes board member fee. 
b
 C
ommittee chairs do not receive an additional membership fee for the committee they chair.
2023 remuneration (audited)
The table below shows the fees paid and applicable benefits for the year ended 31 December 2023. Benefits include travel and other expenses relating to the attendance at board and other meetings both inside and outside bp's headquarters in the UK. Under the terms of his engagement with the company, Helge Lund has the use of a fully maintained office for company business, a car and driver, and security advice in London. Benefits values have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant, as an estimation of tax due. Taxable benefit changes for the chair in 2023 principally arose as a result of additional travel commitments in relation to his bp duties.
Fees Benefits Totala
£ thousand 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Dame Amanda Blancb159 38 2 0 161 38
Pamela Daley 159 155 67 65 226 220
Helge Lund (Chair) 809 785 66 37 875 822
Melody Meyerc184 180 29 34 213 214
Tushar Morzariad174 170 3 6 177 176
Hina Nagarajanb116 — 32 — 148 —
Satish Paib116 — 39 — 155 —
Paula Rosput Reynolds 220 215 20 23 240 238
Karen Richardsone,f178 160 18 23 196 183
Sir John Sawersg174 170 7 4 181 174
Johannes Teyssenc149 145 15 14 164 159
a D ue to rounding, the totals may not agree exactly with the sum of the component parts. 
b
 D
ame Amanda Blanc was appointed on 1 September 2022, and Hina Nagarajan and Satish Pai were appointed on 1 March 2023.
c
 F
ee includes £10,000 p.a. for being a member of the bp geopolitical advisory council. 
d
 D
ue to an administrative error Tushar Morzaria received an overpayment of £6,000 during 2022, which was recovered in 2023. These payments have been excluded for consistency.
e
 F
ee includes £25,000 p.a. for chairing the bp digital advisory council.
f
 F
ee includes £25,000 p.a. for chairing the bp innovation advisory council, which was undertaken until 31 July 2023.
g
 F
ee includes £15,000 p.a. for chairing the bp geopolitical advisory council. 

129
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Chair and non-executive directors’ interests (audited)
The figures below include all the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the chair and each non-executive director (NED) of the company in shares of 
bp (or calculated equivalents) that have been disclosed according to the disclosure guidance and transparency rules in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook ('the DTRs') as at the applicable dates. Our 2023 policy encourages NEDs to establish a holding in bp shares of the equivalent value of one year's base fee during their tenure.
Ordinary shares or equivalents
At 1 Jan 
2023 At 31 Dec 
2023Changes to 
16 Feb 2024At 16 Feb 
2024Value of current 
shareholdinga% of guideline 
achieved
Dame Amanda Blanc 23,500 23,500 — 23,500 £110,920 92%
Pamela Daley 40,332 40,332 — 40,332 $238,295 160%
Helge Lund (Chair) 600,000 600,000 — 600,000 £2,832,000 347%
Melody Meyer 20,646 20,646 — 20,646 $121,983 82%
Tushar Morzaria 71,972 71,972 — 71,972 £339,708 283%
Hina Nagarajanb— 10,000 — 10,000 £47,200 39%
Satish Paib— 12,000 — 12,000 $70,900 48%
Paula Rosput Reynolds 78,378 78,378 — 78,378 $463,083 311%
Karen Richardson 29,316 29,316 — 29,316 $173,209 116%
Sir John Sawers 24,242 24,242 — 24,242 £114,422 95%
Johannes Teyssen 35,000 35,000 — 35,000 £165,200 138%
a B ased on ordinary share and ADS prices at 16 February 2024 of £4.72 and $35.45 Where a US$ value is provided these shares are held as ADSs. 
b
 H
ina Nagarajan and Satish Pai were appointed on 1 March 2023.
Other disclosures
Historical TSR performance
2022 2023 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013£0£50£100£150£200£250
BP
FTSE 100Relative importance of spend on pay ($ million)
2023 20224,809Distributions to
bp shareholders
2023 202210,279Remuneration paid 
to all employees
2023 202214,998
4,3589,81612,470Capital investment
a
a Organic capital expenditure.
The graph above shows the growth in value of hypothetical £100 investments in BP p.l.c. ordinary shares, and in the FTSE 100 index (of which bp is a 
constituent), over 10 years from 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2023. 

130
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ remuneration report continued
History of chief executive officer remuneration
Year Chief executive officerTotal remuneration, 
thousandAnnual bonus % 
of maximumPerformance shares 
% of maximum
2014 Bob Dudley $16,390 73.3 63.8
2015 Bob Dudley $19,376 100 74.3
2016 Bob Dudley $11,904 61 40
2017 Bob Dudley $15,108 71.5 70
2018 Bob Dudley $15,253 40.5 80
2019 Bob Dudley $13,234 67.5 71.2
2020aBob Dudley $188 0 32.5
Bernard Looney £1,735 0 32.5
2021 Bernard Looney £4,457 80.5 30
2022bBernard Looney £10,331 75.5 54
2023cdBernard Looney £1,175 n/a n/a
Murray Auchincloss £5,680 79.5 75
a 2 020 figures show remuneration for the periods of qualifying service as CEO during 2020.
b
 2
022 figure updated based on the actual share price used for vesting of £4.86.
c
 S
hare price has been based on the average share price over Q4 of the 2023 FY of £4.93.
d
 B
ernard Looney stepped down as CEO and from the board of directors with immediate effect on 12 September 2023 and was succeeded by Murray Auchincloss as interim CEO on the same date. 
In respect of variable pay, Bernard Looney did not receive any bonus or EDIP awards in respect of 2023. The total single figure shown in the table above excludes the impact of malus and clawback in order to provide a comparison with prior years. For further details of his treatment upon departure, please see page 127 . For Murray Auchincloss, his total single figure has been pro-rated to show 
the period worked as interim CEO during the year except for his long-term share award which has been shown in full. 
Chief executive officer to employee pay ratio
Year Method25th percentile:
pay ratio,
total pay and benefits, 
(salary)50th percentile:
pay ratio,
total pay and benefits, 
(salary)75th percentile:
 pay ratio, 
total pay and benefits, 
(salary)
2019aOption A 54 3:1 188:1 82:1
2020aOption A 99:1 40:1 19:1
2021 Option A 208:1 87:1 35:1
2022bOption A 421:1 172:1 69:1
2023cdOption A 268:1 103:1 45:1
£25,535 £66,822 £150,704
(£25,080) (£48,433) (£80,525)
a B ob Dudley’s pay has been converted from US dollars as per the ratios reported in the 2019 and 2020 annual reports.b
 S
hare price for the CEO share plan vesting has been updated based on the actual share price used for vesting of £4.86.
c
 S
hare price for the CEO share plan vesting has been based on the average share price over 4Q of the 2023 FY of £4.93.
d
 F
or 2023, the total single figure used to derive the CEO pay ratio is a combination of the two individuals in position of CEO during the year. In respect of the former CEO, the calculation has been 
based on the total single figure excluding the impact of malus and clawback in order to provide a comparison with prior years. Appropriate pro-rating of fixed and variable pay has been applied.
This is our fifth year reporting the CEO pay ratio following the requirements introduced in 2018. As per the past four years, we have selected Option A 
as our reporting basis, being the most accurate approach available, and we confirm that no broadly applicable components of pay have been omitted. Where necessary, full-time equivalent pay has been calculated by simple engrossment of part-year values. Employee values relate to pay and benefits for the year ended 31 December 2023.
Changes in pay ratio over time reflect the fact that CEO remuneration is more heavily weighted to variable pay, resulting in larger year-on-year swings 
than wider workforce pay. This is evidenced by the variability of the CEO pay ratio over the past five years. This volatility in the pay ratio reporting from year to year is expected, and illustrates one of the challenges in commenting on whether pay differentials are appropriate. In 2023 the 50th percentile pay ratio decreased from 172:1 to 103:1. This was driven by the former CEO not receiving any variable pay in respect of 2023, as he was not paid any annual bonus in respect of 2023 and his 2021-23 EDIP lapsed in full on departure. For further details of his treatment upon departure, please see page
 
127. It is the view of the committee that the remuneration frameworks we have in place for the executive directors and the wider workforce are 
fit-for-purpose and deliver pay outcomes appropriate to the circumstance of the year, with differentials that reflect the relative contributions made at
 
different levels in our organization.
The committee is satisfied that the median pay ratio reported this year is consistent with bp’s pay policies for employees and does not constitute a reason to modify our pay programmes.

131
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Percentage change comparisons: Directors’ remuneration versus employees
In the table below, values in column ‘a’ represent the percentage change in salary and fees; values in column ‘b’ represent the percentage change in 
taxable benefits; and values in column ‘c’ represent the percentage change in bonus outcomes for performance periods in respect of each financial year. For the purposes of comparison, the employee percentages shown below represent the relative change between the median full-time equivalent pay for every employee employed at BP p.l.c. at any point during the relevant financial year, and the equivalent median value for the preceding financial year.
Taxable benefit changes for the chair in 2023 principally arose as a result of additional travel commitments in relation to his bp duties, and for the 
current CEO as a result of transitional changes to the car-related benefit, as approved by the committee.
2023 v 2022 2022 v 2021 2021 v 2020 2020 v 2019
Percentage change fora: a b c a b c a b c a b c
Employees 6% 1% 4% 2% 1% 45% 7% -9% 100% 0% 0% -100%
Bernard Looneyb-27% -60% -100% 4% 233% -2% 2% -29% 100% — — —
Murray Auchinclossc30% 283% 31% 7% 530% 3% 5% 5% 100% — — —
Dame Amanda Blancd38% 100% n/a — — n/a — — n/a — — n/a
Pamela Daley 2% 2% n/a 7% 43% n/a 4% 1385% n/a -15% -92% n/a
Helge Lund (chair) 3% 78% n/a 0% 97% n/a 0% -24% n/a 0% -74% n/a
Melody Meyer 2% -14% n/a 13% 139% n/a -4% 283% n/a 9% -77% n/a
Tushar Morzariac2% -46% n/a 25% 100% n/a 5% 0% n/a — — n/a
Hina Nagarajane— — n/a — — n/a — — n/a — — n/a
Satish Paie— — n/a — — n/a — — n/a — — n/a
Paula Rosput Reynolds 2% -14% n/a 16% 145% n/a 6% 228% n/a 2% -92% n/a
Karen Richardsonf11% -20% n/a 30% 96% n/a — — n/a — — n/a
Sir John Sawers 2% 105% n/a 17% 1% n/a 0% 1588% n/a 0% -83% n/a
Johannes Teyssenf3% 12% n/a 21% 65% n/a — — n/a — — n/a
a T he resumption of bonus for 2021, and Tushar Morzaria's and Dame Amanda Blanc's taxable benefits for 2022 and 2023 respectively were, mathematically, infinite increases relative to the nil 
bonus for 2020 and nil taxable benefits for 2021 and 2022; we have shown the increases as 100% for illustration.
b
 B
ernard Looney stepped down from the board on 12 September 2023 and his remuneration is shown up to this date.
c
 M
urray Auchincloss and Tushar Morzaria were appointed to the board part-way through 2020 and therefore, other than for one-time items, their 2020 pay has been annualised for comparison.
d
 D
ame Amanda Blanc was appointed to the board part-way through 2022 and therefore no comparison to 2021, 2020 or 2019 is available and, other than for one-time items, her 2022 pay has been 
annualised for comparison.
e
 H
ina Nagarajan and Satish Pai were appointed to the board in 2023 and therefore no comparison to 2022, 2021, 2020 or 2019 is available.
f
 K
aren Richardson and Johannes Teyssen were appointed to the board in 2021 and therefore no comparison to 2020 or 2019 is available. 
Independence and advice
The board considers all committee members to be independent with no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the committee’s decisions. Further detail on the activities of the committee in 2023 is set out in the remuneration committee report on page 125 . 
During 2023 Ben Mathews, who was employed by the company and reported to the chair of the board, acted as secretary to the remuneration committee. 
The committee also received advice on various matters relating to the remuneration of executive directors and senior management from Kerry 
Dryburgh, EVP people & culture and Ashok Pillai, SVP reward. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) continued to provide independent advice to the committee in 2023. PwC advice included, for example, support 
with remuneration benchmarking and updates on market practice. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consulting Group and, as such, operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration in the UK. The committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent. The committee is comfortable that the PwC engagement partner and team who provides remuneration advice to the committee do not have connections with the company or its directors that may impair their independence. 
Total fees or other charges (based on an hourly rate) for the provision of remuneration advice to the committee in 2023 (save in respect of legal advice) 
were £94,714 to PwC. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (Freshfields) provided legal advice on specific compliance matters to the Committee. PwC and Freshfields provide other advice in their respective areas to the group. 
Considerations related to the Corporate Governance Code
When setting the 2023 policy, the committee concluded that a scorecard-based approach to setting targets and measuring outcomes helps it to engage transparently with shareholders and the wider workforce on remuneration. Thus, bp continues to operate a simple, clear structure of market-aligned salary with annual and three-year performance-based incentives. Risks are managed through careful setting of performance measures and targets and the committee retains the exercise of its discretion in assessing outcomes. These are complemented with robust malus and clawback measures. Remuneration outcomes are predictable, as shown in the implementation charts of the 2023 policy, and proportional by virtue of the challenging performance levels required to achieve target pay outcomes. Through material weighting in measures related to safety, sustainability and strategy, as shown on page 123 , remuneration aligns closely with bp’s culture, as expressed through our purpose and ambition.  
      

132
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Shareholder engagement
Throughout 2023, the committee engaged frequently on remuneration policy and approach with bp’s largest shareholders, as well as their 
representative bodies. This dialogue will continue throughout 2024.
The table below shows the recent votes on the directors’ remuneration report and policy.
Year % vote ‘for’ % vote ‘against’ Votes withheld
2023 – Directors’ remuneration report 81.95% 18.05% 179,106,094
2023 – Directors’ remuneration policy 94.23% 5.77% 36,921,641
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The service contracts of executive directors do not have a fixed term. Service contracts for each executive director are available for shareholders to 
view upon request at the company’s registered office. Each executive director’s service contract contains a 12-month notice period. Consistent with the best interests of the group, the committee will seek to minimize termination payments. 
Date of contract Effective date
Murray Auchincloss 17 Jan 2024 17 Jan 2024
Kate Thomson 2 Feb 2024 2 Feb 2024
The non-executive directors (NEDs) have letters of appointment, which are available for shareholders to view upon request at the company’s registered office. All directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the annual general meeting. Normally, NEDs will be encouraged to serve for up to nine years from their appointment in line with the provisions of the 2018 Code, subject to annual re-election. 
External appointments
The board supports executive directors taking up appointments outside the company to broaden their knowledge and experience. Each executive director is permitted to retain any fee from their external appointments. Such external appointments are subject to agreement by the chair and reported to the board. Any external appointment must not conflict with a director’s duties and commitments to bp. Details of appointments as NEDs of publicly listed companies during 2023 are shown below. 
Appointee 
companyAdditional position held 
at appointee companyTotal fees, 
£
Murray Auchincloss Aker BP ASAaDirector 0
Kate Thomson Aker BP ASAaDirector 0
a H eld as a result of the company’s shareholding in Aker BP ASA. 
This directors’ remuneration report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by Ben J.S. Mathews, company secretary on 8 March 2024.Directors’ remuneration report continued

133
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373Other disclosures
Appointment and succession plans
The chair, senior independent director (SID) and 
other independent non-executive directors (NEDs) each have letters of appointment with BP p.l.c. and do not serve, nor are they employed, in any executive capacity by bp. In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (Code), bp proposes all directors for annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) where letters of appointment for each NED are available for inspection. Details on the skills and experience of each director seeking re-election, as well as their individual contributions to the long-term success of the company, are set out in the Notice of AGM. In accordance with the Code, NEDs would not be expected to serve beyond nine years unless there are exceptional circumstances. For information on board meetings held during 2023 and director attendance at board meetings, please see page
 
85. On behalf of the board, the people and 
governance committee reviews the formal appointment process and succession plans for the board. Appointments and succession plans are both based on merit and assessed against objective criteria with the promotion of diversity, equity and inclusion as central considerations. This includes diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds as well as cognitive and personal strengths. In reviewing appointments and succession plans, due consideration is given to ensure the smooth transition of board members with specific responsibilities (e.g. committee chair roles) by allowing sufficient time for a detailed handover. This is balanced by the need to have new board members join at regular intervals such that over time there is a controlled approach to board members reaching the end of their tenure. Further detail on board succession and tenure can be found in the people and governance committee report on page 95  and board at a glance disclosure 
on
 p
age 83 , respectively.
Time commitments 
The expectation regarding time commitment for board members to effectively discharge their duties is set out in the directors’ letters of appointment. The time commitment varies with the demands of bp business and other events. The NEDs’ external time commitments – whether through executive, non-executive, advisory or other roles – are regularly reviewed by the company secretary to ensure that directors are able to allocate appropriate time to bp. A register of directors’ time commitments and conflicts is maintained and is also reviewed annually by the people and governance committee. The review process takes into account outside appointments and other external commitments and considers the complexity of the organization, the nature of the role, the sector (especially regulated and/or potentially competing sectors) and any leadership roles  
(e.g. a chair position). NEDs are also required to consult with the company secretary and chair before accepting any other role that may impact their ability to commit appropriate time to bp. The process for the approval of any new external appointment, significant or otherwise, for an existing director assesses the impact of that appointment on the director’s time in order to ensure the director has sufficient capacity for their role with bp. As part of that same review process, a review of independence and potential conflicts of interest is undertaken, taking account of institutional investor and proxy advisor guidance and market best practice. Any external proposed commitments that could exceed the  
mandates set out in such guidance are given  
particular consideration. The board was satisfied that significant appointments undertaken during 2023 did not impact the directors’ ability to prepare for and attend meetings, engage with stakeholders and participate in learning and development opportunities. The board has concluded that, notwithstanding external appointments held, each director is able to dedicate sufficient time to fulfil their bp duties. In compliance with the Code, none of the executive directors who served during 2023 held more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company or other significant appointment throughout their tenure on the board. For more information on the external commitments of bp’s directors, see page 83 .
Independence and conflicts of  interest
All directors have a statutory duty to exercise independent judgement. Independence of NEDs is crucial in bringing constructive challenge to the chief executive officer (CEO) and the leadership team at board meetings, while providing support and guidance to promote meaningful discussion and, ultimately, informed and effective decision-making. In addition, each director has a statutory duty to disclose actual or potential conflicts of interest. In accordance with the criteria set out in the Code, the chair was considered independent at the time he was appointed. NEDs are required to provide sufficient information to allow the board to evaluate their independence prior to and following their appointment. Formal procedures are in place for new potential conflicts to be reported and recorded during the year. As a consequence of regular reviews in 2023, the board is satisfied that there were no matters giving rise to conflicts of interest which could not
 
be authorized by the board. It has therefore 
concluded that all bp NEDs are independent.
Reporting in line with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(10)
As at 31 December 2023, 50% of the board comprises women, our SID is a woman and three directors identify as from an ethnic minority background. Following Kate Thomson’s appointment to the board as chief financial officer (CFO) in 2024 and as at the date of publication of this report, 54% of the board comprises women, two senior board positions are held by women and three directors identify as being from an ethnic minority background. Data for the below tables is collected on an annual basis through a standardized process under which each member of the board and executive management is asked to self-declare, or elect not to declare, their ethnic background and gender identity or sex. The information is correct as at 31 December 2023. For the purposes of this table, executive management includes bp’s leadership team and the company secretary.
Gender identity or sex Number of  
board members Percentage  
of the board Number of senior  
positions on the board  
(CEO, SID and chair) Number in  
executive 
management Percentage  
of executive 
management 
Men 6 50% 2 5 42%
Women 6 50% 1 7 58%
Other categories – – – – –
Not specified/prefer not to say – – – – –
Ethnic background
White British or other white (including minority-white groups) 9 75% 3 11 92%
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups – – – – –
Asian/Asian British 3 25% – 1 8%
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British – – – – –
Other ethnic group, including Arab – – – – –
Not specified/prefer not to say – – – – –

134
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Directors’ statements
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. The directors are required by the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the group and the parent company and the financial performance and cash flows of the group and parent company for that period. Under that law they are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the United Kingdom and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom accounting standards (United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice), including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. In preparing the consolidated financial statements the directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and IFRS as adopted by the European Union (EU).
In preparing those financial statements, the 
directors are required to:
•
 S
elect suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently.
•
 M
ake judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent.
•
 P
resent information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable information.
•
 P
rovide additional disclosure when 
compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the group’s financial position and financial performance. 
•
 S
tate that applicable accounting standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements.
•
 P
repare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and company and enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as 
the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section 418(3) of the Companies Act 2006) of which the company’s auditors are unaware, and the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Each of the current directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on pages 83-85 , confirms 
that to the best of their knowledge:
•
 T
he consolidated financial statements, 
prepared on the basis of IFRS as issued by 
the IASB, IFRS as adopted by the United Kingdom and EU and in accordance with  the provisions of the Companies Act 2006  as applicable to companies reporting under international accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group.
•
 T
he parent company financial statements, 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, performance and cash flows of the company.
•
 T
he management report, which is 
incorporated in the strategic report and directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Helge Lund
Chair8 March 2024UK Corporate Governance 
Code  
compliance
Throughout 2023, bp applied the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 (Code) and has complied with all the provisions. The information set out in the Directors’ report, including the committee reports on pages 94-132 , is intended to provide an explanation of 
how bp applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code during the year. The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website: frc.org.uk .
Risk management and 
internal  
control
Under the Code, the board is responsible for the 
company’s risk management and internal control systems. In discharging this responsibility the board, through its governance principles, requires the chief executive officer to operate the company with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit to identify and manage the risks, including emerging risks that are material to bp. In turn, the board, through its monitoring processes, satisfies itself that these material risks are identified and understood by management and that systems of risk management and internal control are in place to mitigate them. These systems are reviewed periodically by the board, have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this report and are consistent with the requirements of Principle O of the Code.
The board has processes in place to:•
 A
ssess the principal and emerging risks 
facing the company.
•
 M
onitor the company’s system of internal 
control (which includes the ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal and emerging risks).
•
 R
eview the effectiveness of that 
system annually.
Acquired businesses which have not transitioned into bp’s system of internal  control and non-operated joint ventures and associates
 have not been dealt with as part  
of this process.
A description of the principal risks facing the 
company, including those that could potentially threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, is set out in Risk factors on pages 77-79 . During 2023 the 
board undertook a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks facing the company. The principal means by which these risks are managed or mitigated are set out on page 73-76 .

135
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Corporate governance  See glossary on page 373In assessing the risks faced by the company 
and monitoring the system of internal control, the board and the audit and safety and sustainability committees requested, received and reviewed reports from executive management, including management of the business segments, corporate activities and  any functions, at their regular meetings. A  report by each of these committees, including its activities during the year, is set out on pages
 
94-132 .
During 2023 the committees, as relevant, also met with management, the SVP internal audit and other monitoring and assurance functions (including group ethics & compliance, safety and operational risk, group control, group legal and group risk) and the external auditor. Responses by management to incidents that occurred were considered by the relevant committee or the board, as appropriate.
At a meeting in March 2024, the audit 
committee considered reports from the group risk function on the system of internal control and the function’s categorisation of significant failings or weaknesses. The audit committee also considered a report from internal audit on their assessment of bp’s systems of internal control and risk management, based on audit work conducted during 2023. In considering these reports and assessments, the audit committee noted that bp’s systems of internal control and risk management is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board then considered the review 
undertaken by the audit committee and the proposed disclosures outlining the company’s risk management and internal control systems prior to publication of the annual report and accounts.
A statement regarding the company’s internal 
controls over financial reporting is set out on page 133 .Longer-term viability
In accordance with provision 31 of the Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the company over a period significantly longer than 12 months. The directors believe that a viability assessment period of three years remains appropriate. This assessment is based on management’s reasonable expectations of the position and performance of the company over this period, its internal detailed budgets and planning timeframes and the targets and aims that it has set out.
Our risk management system, described in  
how we manage risk starting on page 73 , 
outlines our risk identification, assessment  and management approach for all risks, including our principal risks, described starting on page 77 .
Taking into account the company’s current position and its principal risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
The directors’ assessment included a review 
of the potential financial impact of, and the financial headroom that could be available in the event of, the most severe but plausible scenarios that could threaten the viability of the company. The assessment took into consideration the robust financial position of the group and the potential mitigations that management reasonably believes would be available to the company over this period. Mitigations considered include use of cash, access to debt facilities and credit lines, raising of capital, reductions in capital expenditure, divestments and dividend reductions.
The scenarios that have been modelled are 
based on the most severe but plausible outcomes and associated costs are based on actual experience where possible. The scenarios have been considered individually and as a cluster of events. They include:
•
 A s
ignificant process safety incident when 
operating facilities, drilling wells or 
transporting hydrocarbons.
•
 A s
ustained significant decline in oil prices 
over three years.
•
 A s
ignificant cyber security incident.
•
 A l
oss of a significant market or producing 
asset for six months. The directors also considered the impact on viability from an extended pandemic scenario, as well as the potential risks associated with climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy. They consider that the most likely impacts of these risks are broadly captured and modelled through the sustained low oil price and loss of a producing asset scenarios.
In assessing the prospects of the company, the 
directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Fair, balanced and understandable 
The board considers the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Going concern
In accordance with provision 30 of the Code, the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Forecast liquidity has been assessed under a 
number of stressed scenarios to support this assertion. Reverse stress tests performed indicated that the group will continue to operate as a going concern for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements even if the Brent price fell to zero. For further information on financial risk factors, including liquidity risk, see Financial statements – Note 29.

136
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY

Consolidated financial statements of the bp group
Independent auditor's reports (PCAOB ID 1147 ) 138 Group statement of changes in equity 166
Group income statement 164 Group balance sheet 167
Group statement of comprehensive income 165 Group cash flow statement 168
Notes on financial statements
1. Significant accounting policies 169 22. Trade and other payables 212
2. Non-current assets held for sale 188 23. Provisions 212
3. Business combinations 189 24. Pensions and other post-retirement 
benefits213 4. Disposals and impairment 190
5. Segmental analysis 193 25. Cash and cash equivalents 219
6. Sales and other operating revenues 197 26. Finance debt 219
7. Income statement analysis 197 27. Capital disclosures and net debt 220
8. Exploration for and evaluation of oil and 
natural gas resources 19828. Leases 221
29. Financial instruments and financial risk 
factors221 9. Taxation 198
10. Dividends 201 30. Derivative financial instruments 226
11. Earnings per share 201 31. Called-up share capital 235
12. Property, plant and equipment 203 32. Capital and reserves 236
13. Capital commitments 204 33. Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings 241
14. Goodwill 204 34. Remuneration of senior management and 
non-executive directors244 15. Intangible assets 206
16. Investments in joint ventures 206 35. Employee costs and numbers 245
17. Investments in associates 208 36. Auditor's remuneration 245
18. Other investments 210 37. Subsidiaries, joint arrangements and 
associates246 19. Inventories 210
20. Trade and other receivables 211 38. Events after the reporting period 246
21. Valuation and qualifying accounts 211
Supplementary information on oil and natural gas (unaudited)
Oil and natural gas exploration and production 
activities 248Standardized measure of discounted future net 
cash flows and changes therein relating to proved 
oil and gas reserves269 Movements in estimated net proved reserves 254
Operational and statistical information 272
Parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c.
Company income statement 275 6. Taxation 288
Company statement of comprehensive income 275 7. Called-up share capital 288
Company balance sheet 276 8. Capital and reserves 289
Company statement of changes in equity 277 9. Financial guarantees and other 
contingencies289 Notes on financial statements 278
1. Significant accounting policies 278 10. Auditor's remuneration 290
2. Investments 283 11. Directors' remuneration 290
3. Receivables 283 12. Employee costs and numbers 290
4. Pensions 284 13. Events after the reporting period 290
5. Payables 287 14. Related undertakings 291Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 137

Consolidated financial statements of the bp group 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of BP p.l.c. 
Report on the audit of the financial statements
1.Opinion
 In our opinion:
•The financial statements of BP p.l.c. (the ‘parent company’ or ‘bp’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’ or ‘bp’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended.
•The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and as adopted by the 
European Union (EU). 
•The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards (United Kingdom 
generally accepted accounting practice), including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
•The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of BP p.l.c which comprise the:
•group and parent company income statements
•group and parent company statements of comprehensive income
•group and parent company statements of changes in equity
•group and parent company balance sheets
•group cash flow statement
•group related Notes 1 to 38 to the financial statements, including a summary of material accounting policy information and 
•parent company related Notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements, including a summary of material accounting policy information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law, United Kingdom adopted 
international accounting standards and IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS 101 ‘Reduced 
Disclosure Framework’ (United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice). 
2.Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. 
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The non-audit services provided to the group and parent company for the 
year are disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements. We confirm that we have not provided any non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical 
Standard to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
138 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

3.Summary of our audit approach
Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were:
•potential impact of climate change and the energy transition
•impairment of upstream oil and gas property, plant and equipment (PP&E) assets
•decommissioning provisions
•accounting for complex transactions executed to deliver against the wider group strategy
•valuation of commodity financial derivatives, where fraud risks may arise in revenue recognition, and
•management override of controls.
We have not included a key audit matter in respect of ‘IT controls relating to financial systems’ as there have been no new 
significant issues arising from our testing of financial systems. We also revisited the key audit matter of accounting for complex 
transactions and valuation of commodity financial derivatives identified in the prior year and concluded that given the evolving 
nature of these risks in the business and our response thereto, it would be appropriate to identify them as two separate key audit 
matters.
All other key audit matters are consistent with those we identified in the prior year and the developments in fact patterns of these 
previously identified key audit matters are explained in the respective sections below. 
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was $1,000 million (2022 $1,250 million) which was determined 
based on profit before tax and underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
In the prior year we determined materiality using profit before tax adjusted for the exceptional charges of $25.5 billion associated 
with the decision to exit bp’s shareholding in Rosneft and underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
Scoping Our scope covered 189 consolidation units (cons units). Of these, 138 were full-scope audits and the remaining 51 were subject to 
specific procedures on certain account balances by component audit teams or the group audit team. These covered 70% of group 
revenue, 75% of PP&E and 71% of profit before tax. The remaining 743 cons units were subject to other procedures, including 
performing analytical reviews, making inquiries of management and evaluating and testing management's group-wide controls. 
4.Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial 
statements is appropriate.
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group’s and parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
included:
•considering whether material uncertainties exist that could cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern for at least 12 
months after the date of approval of the financial statements 
•assessing the financing facilities including the nature of the facilities, repayment terms and covenants 
•assessing whether the impact of potential margin calls in respect of derivative exchange contracts used to risk manage the physical portfolio has been 
appropriately considered given price volatility 
•assessing management’s identified potential mitigating actions and the appropriateness of the inclusion of these in the going concern assessment 
•testing the clerical accuracy of the going concern model
•assessing the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by management
•performing our independent sensitivity analysis and
•assessing the disclosures made within the financial statements.
Based on our assessment, we concluded that the assumptions used by management were reasonable overall and the disclosures made within the 
financial statements were appropriate.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, 
may cast significant doubt on the group's and parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when 
the financial statements are authorised for issue.
In relation to the reporting on how the group has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in 
relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.
5.Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current 
year and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included 
those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Throughout the course of our audit, we identify risks of material misstatement (‘risks’). We consider both the likelihood of a risk and the potential 
magnitude of a misstatement in making the assessment. Certain risks are classified as ‘significant’ or ‘higher’ depending on their severity. The category of 
the risk determines the level of evidence we seek in providing assurance that the associated financial statement item is not materially misstated.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 139

The matters described below were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we 
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
 
5.1 Potential impact of climate change and the energy transition (impacting PP&E, goodwill, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and 
provisions) – Notes 1, 4, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 33
Key audit matter description Climate change impacts bp’s business in a number of ways as set out in the strategic report on pages 1-80 of the Annual 
Report and Note 1 of the financial statements on page 169. It represents a strategic challenge and a key focus of 
management. The related risks that we have assessed for our audit are as follows:
•Forecast assumptions used in assessing the value-in-use of oil and gas PP&E assets within bp’s balance sheet for 
impairment testing, particularly oil and gas price assumptions and their interrelationship with forecast emissions costs, 
may not appropriately reflect changes in supply and demand due to climate change and the energy transition (see 
‘Impairment of upstream oil and gas PP&E assets’ below).
•The timing of expected future decommissioning expenditures in respect of oil and gas assets may need to be brought 
forward with a resulting increase in the present value of the associated liabilities due to the impact of climate change. 
In addition, there is an exposure to decommissioning obligations that may revert back to bp in respect of assets 
transferred to third parties through historical divestments. The risk of exposure is increased due to the impacts of 
climate change which have heightened long term financial resilience concerns for many industry participants. 
Furthermore, provisions for decommissioning refining assets, not generally recognised on the basis that the potential 
obligations cannot be measured given their indeterminate settlement dates, might need to be recognised if reductions 
in demand due to climate change curtail their operational lives (see ‘Decommissioning provisions’ below).
•The recoverability of certain of the group’s $4.3 billion  total exploration and appraisal (E&A) assets capitalised as at 31 
December 2023 (2022 $4.2 billion) is potentially exposed to climate change and the global energy transition risk factors 
(see Note 15). This is because a greater number of E&A projects may not proceed as a consequence of the energy 
transition leading to lower forecast future oil and gas prices, bp’s intention to reduce its hydrocarbon production (by 
around 25% by 2030 relative to 2019 – see page 171). The determination of whether and when E&A costs should be 
written off, impaired, or retained on the balance sheet as E&A assets, remains complex and continues to require 
significant management judgement. 
•The carrying value of bp’s refining assets within PP&E may no longer be recoverable, due to changes in supply and 
demand which arise as a consequence of climate change and the energy transition. Management identified 
impairment indicators in respect of the Gelsenkirchen refinery during the year and, as a result, an impairment test was 
performed to assess the recoverability of the refinery carrying value. As disclosed in Note 4 to the accounts on page 
192, management has recorded an impairment charge of $1.3 billion  in respect of the Gelsenkirchen refinery in 
Germany, primarily driven by changes in economic assumptions. 
•bp’s intention to reduce its hydrocarbon production (by around 25% by 2030 relative to 2019 – see page 171) and the 
group’s wider strategy includes potentially disposing of certain higher emissions intensity upstream oil assets and 
others. As a consequence, for certain assets and investments judgement is required in the determination of the 
recoverable amount as to whether it should consider the estimated disposal proceeds from a third party, as a key 
input. Management recorded $0.1 billion of pre-tax impairment charges in 2023 for such potential disposals but 
recorded $2.9 billion of such charges in 2022. There is a continuing risk that management judgements taken to 
determine whether impairment charges are required based on bp’s view of whether transactions are likely to proceed 
or not, and bp’s strategic appetite regarding the value of disposal consideration that would be accepted, are not 
reasonable. 
•The carrying value of the group’s investments in low carbon energy assets may no longer be recoverable due to an 
increase in the low carbon energy discount rate (the renewable power assets discount rate) as well as increased 
project development costs, which have been impacted by higher inflation and activity levels within the sector (as a 
result of the energy transition). These factors are adversely impacting the value of low carbon energy projects, 
impacting investment decisions. As a result, impairment tests (which include judgements in relation to the fair value of 
land and sea bed leases, capital and operating cost assumptions and forecast yield and power price assumptions) 
were performed to assess the recoverability of the group’s low carbon energy assets, resulting in an impairment 
recognised by equity accounted entities of $1.3 billion , as disclosed in Note 16 to the accounts on page 208.
•The useful economic lives of the group’s refining assets may be shortened as society moves towards ‘net zero’ 
emissions targets and bp seeks to achieve its net zero ambition, such that the depreciation charge is materially 
understated. Of the total refining assets carried in the balance sheet, all but an immaterial residual value relating 
primarily to land and buildings will be fully depreciated by 2050. As disclosed in Note 1 to the accounts on page 171, 
management has concluded that demand for refined products is expected to remain sufficient for the existing 
refineries to continue operating for the duration of their remaining useful lives and hence no changes to the useful 
economic lives of its refinery assets were required.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
140 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

•The total goodwill balance as at 31 December 2023 is $12.5 billion , of which $7.0 billion relates to upstream oil and gas 
assets. The carrying values of goodwill may no longer be recoverable as a consequence of climate change and 
therefore may need to be impaired. For oil production & operations (OP&O), goodwill is allocated to CGUs in aggregate 
at the segment level and for gas & low carbon energy (G&LCE) goodwill is allocated to the hydrocarbon CGUs within 
the segment. The most significant assumption in the goodwill impairment tests affected by climate change relates to 
future oil and gas prices (see ‘Impairment of upstream oil and gas PP&E assets’ below). Given the significant level of 
headroom in the goodwill impairment tests, management identified no other assumption that could lead to a material 
misstatement of goodwill due to the energy transition and other climate change factors. Disclosures in relation to 
sensitivities for goodwill are included within Note 14 on page 205. The customers & products (C&P) segment has a 
goodwill balance of $5.4 billion , of which the most significant element is $2.7 billion  relating to the Castrol business. 
Notwithstanding the expected global transition to electric vehicles which may reduce demand for Lubricants, due to the 
substantial headroom in the most recent impairment test (as described in Note 14), management has assessed as 
remote the likelihood that the recoverable amount of goodwill is less than its carrying value. 
•Climate change-related litigation brought against bp, as disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, may lead to 
an outflow of funds requiring provision.
The above considerations were a significant focus of management during the period which led to this being a matter that 
we communicated to the audit committee, and which had a significant effect on the overall audit strategy. We therefore 
identified this as a key audit matter.
How the scope of our audit 
responded to the key audit 
matterOverall response 
We held discussions with management, with our climate change specialists and within the group engagement team to 
identify the areas where we felt climate change could have a potential impact on the financial statements.
We also continued to utilise a climate change steering committee comprising a group of senior partners and specialists 
with specific climate change and technical audit and accounting expertise within Deloitte to provide an independent 
challenge to our key decisions and conclusions with respect to this area.
Audit procedures 
The audit response related to two of the audit risks identified is set out under the key audit matters for ‘Impairment of 
upstream oil and gas PP&E assets’ on pages 143-145 and ‘Decommissioning provisions’ on pages 146-147. Other 
procedures are as follows:
In respect of the recoverability of E&A assets capitalised as at 31 December 2023:
•We tested the relevant controls within the group’s E&A write-off and impairment assessment processes. 
•We challenged and evaluated management’s key E&A judgements with regards to the impairment criteria of IFRS 6. 
Where impairment indicators were identified, we corroborated key judgements with internal and external evidence for 
assets that remained on the balance sheet. This included analysing evidence of future E&A plans, budgets and capital 
allocation decisions, assessing management’s key accounting judgement papers, reading meeting minutes and 
assessing licence documentation and evidence of active dialogue with partners and regulators including negotiations 
to renew licences or modify key terms.
We considered the impact of potential changes in supply and demand on the group’s refining portfolio and reviewed 
internal and external market studies of future supply and demand. In relation to the Gelsenkirchen refinery impairment 
test, we assessed the valuation methodology, tested the integrity and mechanical accuracy of the impairment model and 
assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions and inputs, notably forecast refining margins and energy input costs, 
challenging and evaluating management’s assumptions by reference to third party data where available. We also 
evaluated management’s ability to forecast future cash flows and margins by comparing actual results to historical 
forecasts and tested management’s internal controls over the impairment test and related inputs. 
We challenged management’s analysis that identified the specific assets that are likely to be disposed of by bp as part of 
its strategy. Where relevant, we challenged bp’s asset impairment assessments based on their estimated disposal 
proceeds and whether transactions are judged likely to proceed or not. We obtained evidence of any negotiations with 
third parties, considered bp’s strategic intent in this context and challenged management’s assessment of the recoverable 
amounts for material transactions. We also tested relevant controls which covered both the recoverable amounts 
determined and the likelihood of transaction completion. 
In respect of the impairment tests performed on certain offshore wind asset low carbon energy investments, we tested 
the result by:
•Testing the relevant controls over these low carbon energy impairment tests including controls over key assumptions 
and the discount rate
•Assessing the low carbon energy discount rate with input from our valuation specialists
•Challenging and evaluating the key assumptions within the impairment tests. This included the fair value of land and 
sea bed leases, capital and operating cost assumptions, and forecast yield and power price assumptions impacting the 
fair value of the development project and
•Testing the mechanical accuracy of the impairment models.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 141

We challenged management’s assertion that no changes are required to the assessed useful economic lives of refining 
assets as a consequence of climate change factors. In doing this, we obtained third party reports assessing future refined 
petroleum product demand for those countries which are included in our group full audit scope for the C&P segment. In 
particular, we considered the forecasts as set out in the IEA World Energy Outlook 2023 which shows that demand for 
refined petroleum products is expected to remain sufficient for at least the current remaining useful economic lives of the 
refineries such that current depreciation rates are appropriate, including under the Announced Pledges Scenario which is 
associated with a temperature rise of 1.7 °C in 2100 (with a 50% probability). 
We performed procedures to satisfy ourselves that, other than future oil and gas price assumptions, there were no other 
assumptions in management’s oil and gas goodwill impairment tests to which reasonably possible changes due to the 
energy transition and other climate change factors could cause goodwill to be materially misstated. We obtained evidence 
which supported management’s conclusion that goodwill relating to the C&P segment activities is not impaired due to 
climate change or other factors. 
With regard to climate change litigation, we designed procedures specifically to respond to the risks that provisions could 
be understated or that contingent liability disclosures may be omitted or be inaccurate including:
•Holding discussions with the group general counsel and other senior bp lawyers regarding climate change matters 
•Conducting a search for climate change litigation and claims brought against the group 
•Making written inquiries of, and holding discussions with, external legal counsel advising bp in relation to climate 
change litigation and
•Assessing the contingent liability disclosures in the annual report on pages 241-243. 
We read the other information included in the Annual Report and considered (a) whether there was any material 
inconsistency between the other information and the financial statements; or (b) whether there was any material 
inconsistency between the other information and our understanding of the business based on audit evidence obtained and 
conclusions reached in the audit.
Key observations Key observations in relation to oil and gas price assumptions used in oil and gas PP&E asset impairment tests, and the 
impact of climate change on decommissioning provisions are set out in the relevant key audit matter below.
We concluded that the key E&A assessments had been appropriately determined and the judgements management had 
made were appropriately supported. We did not identify any additional impairments or write-offs from the work we 
performed. We also confirmed management's view that they did not consider that the progression of any of their E&A 
assets would be inconsistent with bp’s current strategy and management’s capital frame and capital allocation intentions 
in light of climate change and the energy transition. 
We are satisfied: 
•with the results of our procedures relating to the carrying value of refining assets and that the impairments recorded 
are reasonable
•that management’s planned disposal related asset impairment assessments are reasonable and we did not identify 
any additional material impairments
•with the results of the low carbon energy impairment tests. The discount rate used by management was within the 
range that we would have expected. 
•with the results of our procedures relating to the assessment of the useful economic lives of refining assets and 
therefore depreciation charges, based on the market studies we read
•with the sensitivity analysis disclosures around the energy transition and other climate change factors performed in 
respect of the goodwill balances; and that the group’s goodwill balances are not materially misstated
•with management’s assertion that no provision should currently be made in respect of climate change litigation. Based 
on the audit evidence obtained both from internal and external legal counsel, we concluded that management’s 
disclosure of the contingent liabilities in respect of these matters is appropriate and 
•that management’s other disclosures in the Annual Report relating to climate change are consistent with the financial 
statements and our understanding of the business. 
Whilst many of bp’s oil and gas properties and refining assets are long term in nature, by 2050, the remaining carrying 
value of assets currently being depreciated will be immaterial, this date being the target set by the majority of 
governments with ‘net zero’ emissions targets and also by bp, being Aim 1 of the ‘Getting to net zero’ strategy set out on 
page 48. At current rates of depreciation, depletion and amortisation (DD&A), the average remaining depreciable life of the 
upstream oil and gas PP&E (within the OP&O and G&LCE segments) is six years and the refining assets (within the C&P 
segment) is twelve years. 
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
142 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

5.2 Impairment of upstream oil and gas property, plant and equipment (PP&E) assets – Notes 1, 4 and 12 to the financial statements
Key audit matter description The group balance sheet as at 31 December 2023 includes PP&E of $105 billion  (2022 $106 billion), of which $62 billion  
(2022 $68 billion) is oil and gas properties.  
Management’s best estimate of oil and gas price assumptions for value-in-use impairment tests were revised in 2023 as 
set out in Note 1 on page 177. Brent oil price and Henry Hub assumption revisions during 2023 were not significant.
Management has also revised bp’s ‘best estimate’ discount rate assumptions for value-in-use impairment tests in 2023, as 
set out in Note 1 on page 177. bp’s post-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital, being the starting point for setting 
discount rates used for impairment testing for oil and gas assets, has increased to 8% (2022 7%), reflecting the impact of 
observable increases in risk free rates on bp’s weighted average cost of capital.
Given the significance of the discount rate assumption revisions during 2023, alongside certain CGU specific new 
indicators, management has tested all oil and gas CGUs for impairment and/or impairment reversal during the year. 
Management recorded $3.6 billion (2022 $2.2 billion) of pre-tax oil and gas CGU impairment charges, principally due to the 
discount rate revisions detailed above, price revisions, increase in certain capital expenditure forecasts, operating 
expenditure forecasts and certain reserves write downs. Further information has been provided in Note 1 on page 177 and 
Note 4 on page 191.
We identified three key management estimates in management’s determination of the level of impairment charge and/or 
impairment reversal. These are:
Oil and gas prices  - bp’s oil and gas price assumptions have a significant impact on many CGU impairment 
assessments performed across the OP&O and G&LCE segments and are inherently uncertain. The estimation of 
future prices is subject to increased uncertainty given climate change, the global energy transition, macro-
economic factors and disruption in global supply due to ongoing geo-political conflicts. There is a risk that 
management do not forecast reasonable ‘best estimate’ oil and gas price forecasts when assessing CGUs for 
impairment charge and/or impairment reversal, leading to material misstatements. These price assumptions 
are highly judgmental and are pervasive inputs to bp’s oil and gas CGU valuation. There is also a risk that 
management’s oil and gas price related disclosures are not reasonable.
bp's oil and gas price assumptions for value-in use impairment assessments are aligned with bp’s investment 
appraisal assumptions, except that potential future emissions costs that could be borne by bp are included in 
investment appraisals as bp costs without assuming incremental revenue. 
As described in Note 1 on page 170, emissions costs forecasts interrelate with bp’s oil and gas prices, because 
bp’s price assumptions for value-in-use estimates represent ‘net producer prices’, i.e., net of any further 
emissions costs that may be enacted in the future. Management’s judgement is that the potential impact of 
such further emissions costs being borne by producers including bp is not expected to have a material impact 
on bp’s oil and gas CGU carrying values as costs would effectively be borne by oil and gas end users via overall 
higher commodity prices. There is a risk that management’s judgement is not reasonable.
Discount rates  – Given the long timeframes involved, certain CGU impairment assessments are sensitive to the 
discount rate applied. Discount rates should reflect the return required by the market and the risks inherent in 
the cash flows being discounted. There is a risk that management does not assume reasonable discount rates, 
adjusted as applicable for country risks and relevant tax rates, leading to material misstatements. Determining a 
reasonable discount rate is highly judgmental and, consistent with price assumptions above, the discount rate 
assumption is also a pervasive input across bp’s oil and gas CGU valuations, before adjustments for asset 
specific risks and tax rates. 
Reserves and resources estimates  – A key input to certain CGU impairment assessments is the oil and gas 
production forecast, which is based on underlying reserves estimates and field specific development 
assumptions. Certain CGU production forecasts include specific risk adjusted resource volumes, in addition to 
proven and/or probable reserves estimates, that are inherently less certain than reserves; and assumptions 
related to these volumes can be particularly judgemental. There is a risk that material misstatements could arise 
from unreasonable production forecasts for individually material CGUs and/or from the aggregation of 
systematic flaws in bp’s reserves and resources estimation policies across the OP&O and G&LCE segments. 
We identified certain individual CGUs with a total carrying value of $18 billion (2022 $17 billion) which we determined 
would be most at risk of material impairment charges as a result of a reasonably possible change in the oil and gas price 
assumptions. This population includes $5 billion of previously impaired assets which are also at risk of material 
impairment reversal resulting from potential oil and gas price assumption changes. We identified that a subset of these 
CGUs was also individually materially sensitive to the discount rate assumption. Accordingly, we identified these as 
significant audit risks. 
We also identified CGUs with a further $2 billion (2022 $13 billion) of combined carrying value which were less sensitive. 
We identified these as a higher audit risk as they would be potentially at risk, in aggregate, to a material impairment by a 
reasonably possible change in some or all of the key assumptions. No impairment reversals are available for these CGUs. 
Further information regarding these sensitivities is given in Note 1 on page 178.
Impairment charge and/or impairment reversal assessments of upstream oil and gas PP&E assets remain a key audit 
matter because recoverable values are reliant on forecasts that are inherently judgemental and complex for management 
to estimate, and the magnitude of the potential misstatement risk is material to the group.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 143

How the scope of our audit 
responded to the key audit 
matterWe tested relevant internal controls over the estimation of oil and gas prices, discount rates, and reserve and resources 
estimates, as well as key internal controls over the performance of the impairment charge and/or impairment reversal 
assessments where we identified audit risks. In addition, we conducted the following substantive procedures. 
Oil and gas prices 
•We independently developed a reasonable range of forecasts based on external data obtained, against which we 
compared management’s oil and gas price assumptions in order to challenge whether they are reasonable. 
•In developing this range, we obtained a variety of reputable and reliable third party forecasts, peer information and 
other relevant market data.  
•In challenging management’s price assumptions, we considered the extent to which they and each of the forecast 
pricing scenarios obtained from third parties reflect the impact of lower oil and gas demand due to climate change and 
the energy transition.  
•The 2015 Conference of the Parties (CoP) 21 Paris Agreement goals of ‘holding the increase in the global average 
temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 
1.5°C above pre-industrial levels’ was reaffirmed at CoP 28 in Dubai during December 2023. We specifically analysed 
third party forecasts stated, or interpreted by us, as being consistent with scenarios achieving the Paris ‘well below 2°C 
goal’ and/or ‘1.5°C ambition’ and evaluated whether they presented contradictory audit evidence. 
•We challenged and evaluated management’s judgement, described in Note 1 on page 170, that the potential impact of 
further emission costs being borne by producers including bp is not expected to have a material impact on bp’s oil and 
gas CGU carrying values. We obtained evidence supporting that oil and gas price forecasts included in our reasonable 
range are forecast on a ‘net producer prices’ basis, (i.e., net of potential future emissions costs that are assumed to be 
borne by oil and gas end users), consistent with the basis of bp’s value-in-use price assumptions.  
•We assessed management’s disclosures in Note 1, including the sensitivity of forecast revenue cash inflows to lower 
oil and gas prices and how climate change and the energy transition, potential future emissions costs and/or reduced 
demand scenarios may impact bp to a greater extent than currently anticipated in bp’s value-in-use estimates for oil 
and gas CGUs. 
Discount rates 
•We independently evaluated bp’s discount rates used in impairment tests with input from our valuation specialists, 
against relevant third party market and peer data. 
•When performing procedures over specific assets, we assessed whether specific country risks and tax adjustments 
were reasonably reflected in bp’s discount rates. 
•We challenged and evaluated management’s disclosures in Note 1, including in relation to the sensitivity of discount 
rate assumptions.  
Reserves and resources estimates   
With the assistance of our oil and gas reserves specialists we: 
•assessed bp’s reserves and resources estimation methods and policies for reasonableness  
•assessed how these policies had been applied to a sample of bp’s reserves and resources estimates which included 
those that we judged to represent the greatest risk of material misstatement 
•read and evaluated a sample of reports provided by management’s external reserves experts and assessed the scope 
of work and findings of these third parties 
•assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of bp’s internal and external reserve experts, through 
understanding their relevant professional qualifications and experience 
•assessed whether management’s production forecasts are consistent overall with bp’s strategy, including the group’s 
expectation to reduce its hydrocarbon production (by around 25% by 2030 relative to 2019 - see page 171)
•compared the production forecasts used in the impairment tests with management’s approved reserves and resources 
estimates and 
•performed a retrospective assessment in order to assess management's ability to accurately estimates reserves and 
resources and to check for indications of estimation bias over time.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
144 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Key observations Oil and gas prices
For the purpose of PP&E impairment tests, management is required under IAS 36 to apply its current ‘best estimate’ of 
future oil and gas prices. We determined that bp’s ‘best estimate’ assumptions are reasonable when compared against a 
range of third party forecasts and peer information that we identified as being appropriate for this purpose. In forming this 
view, we included each forecaster’s ‘base case’, ‘central case’ or ‘most likely’ estimate.
We further observed that, as well as publishing a ‘base case’, ‘central case’ or ‘most likely’ estimate, certain third party price 
forecasters (including the IEA and the WBCSD Catalogue from April 2023) published other price forecasts including some 
that were stated as, or were interpreted by us as being, Paris ‘well below 2°C goal’ or Paris ‘1.5°C ambition’ scenarios. We 
observed that none of those third party forecasters described their ‘Paris consistent’ scenarios as their ‘base case’, ‘central 
case’ or ‘most likely’ estimate. 
Management notes on page 170 that they consider their ‘best estimate’ prices to be in line with a range of transition paths 
consistent with the Paris climate goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C as well as the ambition to limit global 
warming to no greater than 1.5°C. We observed that for oil, whilst being within the lower half of our range of ‘best estimate’ 
forecasts described above, bp’s Brent price assumptions were overall within the higher half of our range of Paris ‘well 
below 2°C goal’ and ‘1.5°C ambition’ scenarios. For Henry Hub gas, management’s updated gas price assumptions until 
2050 sit towards the middle of our range. The positioning of bp’s revised oil and gas forecasts within the range is broadly 
consistent with bp’s positioning in the prior period range. We also noted certain other reputable third party sources that set 
out or implied even higher prices under both Paris ‘well below 2°C goal’ and ‘1.5°C ambition’ scenarios, highlighting the 
large inherent uncertainty regarding ‘Paris consistent’ pathways and the very wide range of potential price forecasts. 
Accordingly, we consider management’s statement as set out above to be reasonable.
By inquiry and analysis, we confirmed that the third party oil and gas price forecasts used to develop our independent 
range are on a net producer price basis. Accordingly, we are satisfied management’s judgement is reasonable that the 
potential impact of further emission costs being borne by bp is not expected to have a material impact on the group’s oil 
and gas CGU carrying values. 
We reviewed the disclosures included in Note 1 to the accounts in respect of oil and gas price assumptions, including the 
sensitivity analysis presented therein. We observed that management’s downside sensitivity, in which oil and gas prices 
are lower than the ‘best estimate’ in all future periods, is broadly in the middle of our range of third party Paris ‘well below 
2°C goal’ and Paris ‘1.5°C ambition’ scenarios between 2025 and 2030 and thereafter close to the bottom of the range for 
both Brent oil and Henry Hub gas. 
Discount rates 
bp’s post-tax nominal 8% weighted average cost of capital, being the starting point for setting discount rates used for 
impairment testing for oil and gas assets, was within the independent range calculated by our valuation specialists. 
We were also satisfied with the calculation of country risk premia. Accordingly, we are satisfied with the discount rates 
used in the impairment charge and impairment reversal testing.
Reserves and resources
We assessed the production forecasts used in the oil and gas CGU valuations that we tested to be reasonable and 
appropriately risked where applicable, for the purposes of management’s impairment tests.
We observed that in aggregate, management’s production forecasts, as utilised in year end oil and gas CGU impairment 
testing, are aligned with bp’s target to reduce hydrocarbon production by 25% of 2019 levels by 2030.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 145

5.3 Decommissioning provisions - Note 1 and 23
Key audit matter description A decommissioning provision of $12.4 billion  is recorded in the financial statements as at 31 December 2023 (2022 $12.3 
billion). The estimation of decommissioning provisions is a highly judgemental area as it involves a number of key 
estimates related to the cost and timing of decommissioning, in particular inflation and discount rate assumptions. Given 
management expects upstream hydrocarbon production to be around 25% lower by 2030 relative to 2019 as stated on 
page 171, consistency of that expectation with the timing of decommissioning expenditure and underlying cost 
assumptions remains a key consideration. 
Consistent with prior years, management estimates that the average rate of forecast inflation applicable to the substantial 
majority of bp’s decommissioning cost estimates is 1.5%, which is 0.5% lower than its estimated long term general 
inflation rate of 2%. The extent to which average future decommissioning cost inflation will differ from the general inflation 
rate depends on industry demand and supply of rigs and other relevant services at the time future decommissioning 
occurs, which in turn will be influenced by future oil and gas demand, and increasingly by structural changes in the 
industry supply chain driven by the energy transition, which are uncertain. With the impact of inflation on relevant costs 
now better understood and able to be factored into cost estimates, and general inflationary pressures easing in some 
areas during 2023, we considered this judgement to be a higher rather than a significant audit risk for 2023.
The estimated undiscounted cost of the obligations and the timing of future payment are set out in Note 1 on page 184. 
Economic factors, future activities and the legislative environments that bp operates in are used to inform cost estimates, 
whereas the timing of decommissioning activities is dependent on cessation of production (CoP) dates, which are 
sensitive to changes in bp’s price forecasts as price estimates determine economic cut off of oil and gas reserve 
estimates.
bp increased its discount rate used in calculating its decommissioning provisions from 3.5% as at 31 December 2022 to 
4.0% as at 31 December 2023. The increase was primarily driven by the increased US treasury bond rates.
Additionally, bp is exposed to decommissioning obligations that could revert back to the group in respect of historical 
divestments to third parties. Judgement is required to assess the potential risk of reversion and if applicable, the 
estimated exposure, for each historically divested asset. The risk of reversion could be elevated by the potential impact of 
the energy transition, in particular the potential for lower oil and gas prices in the longer term which could result in financial 
resilience concerns for some industry participants. The risk further increased following a US legal judgement in 2020 
which required a specific provision and increased the likelihood of decommissioning liabilities reverting to former owners 
as part of a bankruptcy proceeding.
Provisions for decommissioning refining assets, not generally recognised on the basis that the potential obligations 
cannot be measured given their indeterminate settlement dates, might need to be recognised if reductions in demand due 
to climate change curtail their operational lives. As disclosed in Note 1 on page 184 management concluded that, although 
obligations may arise if refineries cease manufacturing operations, they would only be recognised at the point when 
sufficient information became available to determine potential settlement dates. Accordingly, other than where a decision 
has been made to cease refining operations, no triggers for assessing the need to record a decommissioning provision 
have been identified.
How the scope of our audit 
responded to the key audit 
matterLong term inflation rate
•We tested the control related to the determination of the decommissioning specific inflation rate assumption.
•We tested how management derived the decommissioning specific inflation rate assumption of 1.5%, and the evidence 
on which it is based, by gaining an understanding of the process used by management, testing management’s 
calculations of the assumption, and evaluating the evidence relevant to management’s assumption, both supporting 
and contradictory.
•As the 1.5% decommissioning specific inflation rate assumption is determined by making an adjustment to 
management’s 2.0% general long term inflation rate assumption, we evaluated the general long term inflation rate 
assumption used of 2.0%, comparing it against latest external market data.
•We made inquiries and evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of management’s decommissioning 
experts who derived the decommissioning specific inflation rate.
•We inspected analyst forecasts and reports in respect of the future decommissioning market and related costs for 
evidence of supporting and contradictory evidence, with particular focus on the future rig market.
•We particularly considered the expectation that demand for oil and gas products and related activities will decrease, 
primarily in response to climate change and energy transition effects pivoting future energy industry investment and 
development activity towards renewable sources. We challenged and evaluated management’s assessment of the 
impact this will have on the decommissioning market and related inflation assumption.
•We analysed historical trends of rig market rates against oil prices and historical inflation to challenge management’s 
assumption that the decommissioning inflation assumption does not inflate at the same rate as general inflation.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
146 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Cost and timing estimates
•We tested the controls over the year end decommissioning cost and timing assumptions used within management’s 
decommissioning provision estimate.
•We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the assets subject to decommissioning, including understanding the 
process to establish whether a legal or constructive obligation existed.
•We evaluated changes in key cost assumptions including rig rates, vessel rates, well plug and abandonment duration 
and non-productive time assumptions. 
•We challenged whether the impact of inflation experienced in 2023 was appropriately considered and reflected where 
relevant within bp’s cost assumptions.
•We  assessed the reasonableness of key cost assumptions with reference to internal and appropriate third party data. 
•We assessed changes in assumptions for the estimated date of decommissioning and evaluated whether CoP dates 
used for decommissioning estimation are aligned with CoP assumptions in other areas, including PP&E impairment 
testing and oil and gas reserve estimation.
•We assessed the accuracy of bp’s disclosure of the estimated undiscounted cost of its obligations and the timing of 
future decommissioning payments.
Discount rates
•We tested the control related to the determination of the discount rate assumption.
•We assessed the reasonableness of management’s methodology for determining the discount rate and recalculated 
the discount rate with reference to independent third party data, most notably US treasury bond yields. 
Reversion risk
•We obtained an understanding of bp’s decommissioning reversion risk assessment process and tested relevant 
internal controls including those controls over the completeness and accuracy of the previously divested asset data.
•We challenged and evaluated management’s key judgements related to the decommissioning reversion risk and 
conclusions as to whether any additional provision should be recognised, or specific contingent liability disclosure 
made. We assessed the relevant internal and external evidence used in forming this judgement, including the financial 
health of the counterparty or counterparties in the ownership chain for the divested assets and the existence of any 
other pertinent factors which could indicate a higher probability of decommissioning obligations reverting to bp.
Potential decommissioning of refinery assets
•We challenged and evaluated management’s analysis which supported the judgement that no decommissioning 
provisions should be recognised in respect of refineries where there is ongoing activity and management has no 
current intention to cease these activities. 
•We have reviewed analysis undertaken by management, as well as third party studies, of forecast demand for refined 
products in regions served by bp’s refineries. Furthermore, we read external profitability benchmarking which 
supported a conclusion that the group’s remaining refineries would likely remain operational for longer than many of 
their regional competitors, in the event of refining capacity reductions. 
•We also met with refinery management to understand the potential plans under consideration for refineries in the 
future and obtained evidence that management is developing plans for the existing refinery sites remaining in the 
portfolio which would be compatible with net zero emissions, for instance through the production of alternative low 
carbon and sustainable fuels. 
Key observations We concluded that the assumed inflation rate of 1.5% remains reasonable as a long-term inflation rate for 
decommissioning liabilities. We accept as reasonable that the high level of general inflation experienced in 2023 does not 
require a change to bp’s long term average inflation assumption. With respect to the extent to which average future 
decommissioning cost inflation will differ from the general inflation rate, which is influenced by the demand and supply of 
rigs and other relevant services at the time future decommissioning occurs, we concluded that market forecasts support 
the assertion that demand for rigs will not increase in the long term as a result of the impact of the energy transition and 
therefore that inflation of rig costs will be limited.
We concluded that the cost and timing assumptions used in the decommissioning provision calculation were reasonable 
and the assumptions are appropriately supported by industry data. The disclosure included on page 184 with respect to 
the estimated undiscounted cost of bp’s decommissioning obligations and the timing of future decommissioning 
payments are consistent with these conclusions.
Based on our audit procedures, we consider bp’s increased 4.0% discount rate to be reasonable.
No material additional decommissioning provisions have been made in respect of historical divestments where bp are 
exposed to decommissioning reversion risk as a result of the potential future bankruptcy of the current asset owner. 
Based on our review and challenge of management’s assessment, we consider this judgement to be reasonable. We also 
consider the contingent liability disclosure to be reasonable. 
In respect of the group’s refining assets, taking into consideration both the IEA demand forecasts and management’s 
strategic plans for the group’s refineries, including developing production of low carbon and sustainable fuels, we are 
satisfied that it is not currently possible for management to determine closure dates for the remaining operational 
refineries or estimate reliably a settlement date for any decommissioning obligations prior to a decision being made to 
cease refining operations. Accordingly, we have not identified any triggers that would require a decommissioning provision 
to be recorded.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 147

5.4Accounting for complex transactions executed to deliver against the wider group strategy -  Notes 1, 20, 22, 29 and 30 to the financial 
statements
Key audit matter description To support the overall group strategy, which includes achieving bp's group 'net zero' target, bp is increasingly entering into 
long term arrangements that include gas and renewable power offtake/supply contracts in existing and new markets 
whilst providing solutions to bp’s customers through offering lower carbon hydrocarbons. Given the nature of these 
transactions, we direct significant audit effort towards challenging management’s adopted accounting treatment and/or 
valuation estimates.
In previous years, such activity was primarily carried out within the trading and shipping (T&S) function. However, such 
activity can also originate outside of T&S, across segments, functions and/or geographies but in close collaboration with 
T&S.
These transactions may be complex and have sustainability, legal, tax or financial reporting outcomes which are new for 
the group and may be executed in reference to, or in conjunction with, existing arrangements. Determining the appropriate 
accounting treatment for these transactions can require a high degree of management judgement.
Determining the appropriate accounting treatment for these complex transactions : 
Based on our risk assessment and understanding of the underlying business rationale of such transactions, we generally 
consider that complexity arises where the arrangements exhibit one or more of the following indicators:
•Offtake/sale-purchase agreements where the group is the only key customer/supplier;
•The counterparty or the arrangement depends on the group to provide a significant level of financing;
•The group controls exclusive rights, licenses, technology, know-how etc. without which the counterparty cannot 
conduct its operations or the arrangement cannot be fulfilled;
•The arrangement exposes the group to returns/losses which are disproportionate to those which its economic interest 
would suggest; 
•Contractual arrangements entered into in contemplation of each other; or
•The transaction or arrangement directly impacts key performance indicators, in particular, finance debt.
The presence of any one or a combination of these indicators does not make a transaction or arrangement inherently 
complex but are factors we consider in our assessment of the risk arising from the transaction. 
Accounting for such transactions can be complex and can involve significant judgement, as a feature of these 
transactions is that they often include multiple elements that will have a material impact on the presentation and 
disclosure in the financial statements and on key performance measures, including in particular the classification of 
liabilities as finance debt. Accordingly, we have identified a significant audit risk around the accounting for such 
transactions.
How the scope of our audit 
responded to the key audit 
matterFor complex accounting transactions identified during the year we:
•Tested controls related to the accounting for complex transactions.
•Developed an understanding of the commercial rationale of the transactions through discussions with management 
and reading transaction documents and executed agreements.
•For transactions exhibiting certain of the above indicators, performed a detailed accounting analysis leveraging the 
expertise of technical accounting specialists with experience in commodities markets. 
For complex transactions which were identified during the prior years and that continue through 2023, we have refreshed 
our assessment in 2023 taking account of any amendments to the contracts. We assessed whether the conclusions 
reached previously remain appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
Key observations As the group’s activities continue to evolve, in pursuit of its long and medium term strategy, we noted complex accounting 
transactions primarily emerging from its transitional activities, such as gas, power and renewables.
For complex accounting transactions identified during the period, we concluded that the accounting applied by 
management was compliant with IFRS.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
148 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

5.5Valuation of commodity financial derivatives, where fraud risks may arise in revenue recognition - Notes 1, 29 and 30 to the financial statements
Key audit matter description bp’s trading and shipping (T&S) function is responsible for globally trading and risk managing the group’s owned as well as 
third party production. To discharge this responsibility, T&S regularly executes commodity contracts, physically settled or 
otherwise, which are accounted for as a derivative and fair valued under IFRS 9. These contracts, therefore, result in 
unrealised gains/losses that are recognised on account of fair value movements in the associated derivative assets and 
liabilities.
Determining the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities can be complex and subjective, particularly where the 
valuation is dependent on significant inputs which are not observable and are classified as level 3 in the fair value 
hierarchy set out in IFRS 13. This degree of subjectivity also makes such fair value estimates liable to potential fraud by 
management incorporating bias in the inputs used in determining fair values. Given the significant judgements, sensitivity 
to management assumptions, and the absolute value associated with these positions, we have identified a significant risk 
in respect of certain financial instruments where the valuation is dependent on significant unobservable inputs.
Fair value measurements associated with unrealised commodity contracts are also impacted by the macroeconomic 
sentiment and outlook. In 2023, commodity markets remained relatively volatile due to continuing uncertainty resulting 
from the planned energy transition, macro-economic factors such as inflation and interest rates, and disruptions in global 
supply due to geopolitical conflicts. In response to the volatility observed, we focused our audit efforts on the valuation of 
all commodity derivatives and designed procedures specifically to test for management bias. 
As at 31 December 2023, the group’s total level 3 derivative financial assets were $9.2 billion (2022 $8.8 billion) and level 3 
derivative financial liabilities were $7.1 billion (2022 $7.0 billion).
How the scope of our audit 
responded to the key audit 
matterIn response to the above, we analysed the population of these instruments to assess the level of unobservability of the 
inputs used in their valuation and then further disaggregated the population into different risk populations which in turn 
drove the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures. 
To address the complexities associated with auditing the valuation of instruments dependent on significant unobservable 
inputs, we included valuation specialists with significant quantitative and modelling expertise to assist in performing our 
audit procedures. Our valuation audit included the following control and substantive procedures:
•We tested the group’s valuation controls including:
–the model certification control, which is designed to review a model’s theoretical soundness and the 
appropriateness of its valuation methodology; and
–the independent price verification control, which is designed to review the appropriateness of valuation inputs that 
are not observable and are significant to the financial instrument’s valuation.
•We performed valuation testing procedures at interim and year-end balance sheet dates, including:
–comparing management’s input assumptions against the expected assumptions of other market participants and 
observable market data;
–evaluating management’s valuation methodologies against standard valuation practice and analysing whether a 
consistent framework is applied across the business period over period; and
–engaging our valuation specialists to challenge models, develop fair value estimates and evaluate consistency in 
management’s modelling and input assumptions throughout the year.
Key observations Based on the evaluation of the results of the procedures noted above, we concluded that management’s valuations 
relating to commodity derivatives were appropriate. 
We did not identify any indications of inappropriate misrepresentation of revenue recognition in the transactions, valuation 
estimates or accounting entries that we tested. 
5.6Management override of controls (potentially impacting all financial statement accounts)
Key audit matter description We conducted an assessment of the fraud risks arising from management override of controls by considering potential 
areas where the group’s financial statements could be manipulated. In performing this assessment, we considered 
pressures or incentives to achieve certain IFRS or non-IFRS measures due to the remuneration arrangements of people in 
Financial Reporting Oversight Roles (FRORs), including management and senior executives, as well as other incentives 
which could exist in light of bp’s share buyback commitments communicated to its shareholders.
Our considerations included the potential for:
•inappropriate accounting estimates and judgements
•the posting of fictitious or fraudulent journal entries or
•inappropriate accounting for significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business for the entity.
Management has implemented a number of new journal controls in 2021, 2022 and 2023 to address deficiencies 
identified during prior period audits. During the year we identified deficiencies in these new controls but mitigating controls 
to address the risk associated with the deficiencies were also identified. These included analytical reviews, controls over 
closing balances, period-end analytical review controls and certain automated business controls. 
This had a significant bearing again this year on the allocation of audit resources and has been discussed with the audit 
committee throughout the year. Accordingly, we identified this as a key audit matter.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 149

How the scope of our audit 
responded to the key audit 
matterWe tested the mitigating controls to respond to the risk of fraudulent journal entries. In addition, we: made inquiries of 
individuals involved in the financial reporting process about inappropriate or unusual activity relating to the processing of 
journal entries and other adjustments; identified and tested relevant entity-level controls, in particular those related to the 
bp Code of Conduct, whistleblowing (bp OpenTalk) and controls monitoring financial reporting processes and financial 
results; used our data analytics tools to select for testing journal entries and other adjustments made at the end of a 
reporting period or otherwise having characteristics associated with common fraud schemes; and tested journal entries 
and other adjustments recorded in the general ledger throughout the period, with a particular focus on adjustments that 
occur late in the financial close process. We assessed accounting estimates for bias and evaluated whether the 
circumstances producing the bias, if any, represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. A number of the most 
significant estimates are covered by the other Key Audit Matters set out above. This assessment included: evaluating 
whether the judgements and decisions made by management in making the accounting estimates included in the 
financial statements, even if they are individually reasonable, indicate a possible bias on the part of bp's management that 
may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud; and performing a retrospective analysis of management 
judgements and assumptions related to significant accounting estimates reflected in the financial statements of the prior 
year. We considered whether there were any significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business, or 
that otherwise appear to be unusual due to their nature, timing or size. The risks and responses to the revenue recognition 
risks within the trading and shipping function are set out on page 149.
Key observations Our testing of the mitigating controls indicated that they were operating effectively.
Our substantive testing of journal entries and other adjustments, selected through the use of our data analytics tools, did 
not identify any inappropriate items. 
We did not identify evidence of overall bias or any significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business 
for which the business rationale (or the lack thereof) of the transaction suggested that it may have been entered into to 
engage in fraudulent financial reporting or to conceal misappropriation of assets.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
150 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

6.Our application of materiality
6.1 Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our 
work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements
Materiality In 2023 we set materiality for both the group and parent company at $1,000 million. 
In 2022 we used a materiality of $1,250 million for the group and parent company. Group and parent company planning 
materiality for 2022 was $1,000 million and our audit scoping and audit testing was conducted using this planning 
materiality. 
Basis for determining 
materialityConsistent with the prior year we concluded that it is 
appropriate to use profit before tax as a materiality 
benchmark; however unlike last year where there were 
exceptional charges associated with the decision to exit bp’s 
shareholding in Rosneft, no adjustment in respect of 
exceptional items was made in the current year. 
For both the current and prior years, we also used underlying 
replacement cost profit before interest and tax as a 
benchmark for determining materiality.
Materiality was determined to be $1,000 million, which is 
4.2% of profit before tax and 3.7% of underlying replacement 
cost profit before tax.
In 2022, we determined materiality to be $1,250 million, 
which represented 3.1% of normalized profit before tax and 
2.7% of underlying replacement cost profit before tax.We determined materiality for our audit of the standalone 
parent using 0.8% (2022 1.1%) of net assets. 
Rationale for the 
benchmark appliedWe conducted an assessment of which line items are the 
most important to investors and analysts by reading analyst 
reports and bp's communications to shareholders and 
lenders, as well as the communications of peer companies. 
Profit before tax is the benchmark ordinarily considered by us 
when auditing listed entities. It provides comparability 
against companies across all sectors but has limitations 
when auditing companies whose earnings are strongly 
correlated to commodity prices, which can be volatile from 
one period to the next, and therefore may not be 
representative of the volume of transactions and the overall 
size of the business in the year. 
This resulted in us selecting profit before tax and underlying 
replacement cost profit before interest and tax as the most 
appropriate benchmarks. We further note that the non-IFRS 
measure underlying replacement cost profit before interest 
and tax is one of the key metrics communicated by 
management in bp's results announcements and therefore is 
considered to be an appropriate benchmark.The materiality determined for the standalone parent 
company is based on net assets as the company is non­-
trading and operates primarily as a holding company; we 
believe the net asset position is the most appropriate 
benchmark to use.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 151

Profit before tax 
$23,749mGroup materiality $1,000m
Component materiality range 
$228m to $520m
Audit committee 
reporting 
threshold $50m
Underlying RCOP 
before interest 
and tax 
$27,036mGroup materiality $1,000m
Component materiality range 
$228m to $520m
Audit 
committee 
reporting 
threshold $50m6.2 Performance materiality
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements 
exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole. 
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements
Performance materiality Group and parent company performance materiality was set at 65% of materiality for the 2023 audit (2022 65% of 
materiality).
Basis and rationale for 
determining 
performance materialityConsistent with the prior year, performance materiality of 65% reflects the overall quality of the control environment, the 
magnitude of misstatements identified in the current and prior years, as well as the fact that management is generally willing 
to correct any such misstatements.
6.3 Error reporting threshold
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of $50 million (2022 $50 million), as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters 
that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
7.An overview of the scope of our audit
7.1 Identification and scoping of components
As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the group, with operations in over 60 countrie s through  approximately 93 0 cons units , a significant portion 
of our audit planning effort was ensuring that the scope of our work is appropriate in addressing the identified risks of material misstatement. 
The factors that we considered when assessing the scope of the bp audit, and the level of work to be performed at the cons units that are in scope for 
group reporting purposes, included the following:
•The financial significance of an operating unit (which will typically include multiple cons units) to bp's revenue and profit before tax, or PP&E, including 
consideration of the financial significance of specific account balances or transactions.
•The significance of specific risks relating to an operating unit, history of unusual or complex transactions, identification of significant audit issues or the 
potential for, or a history of, material misstatements.
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
152 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

•The effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls.
•The findings, observations and audit differences that we noted as a result of our 2022 audit engagement.
•Our audit approach was generally to place reliance on management’s controls over financial reporting.
To ensure we were able to obtain sufficient, appropriate audit evidence for the purposes of our audit of the financial statements, we performed full scope 
audit procedures for 138 reporting cons units (2022 152) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. There are certain cons units 
which have fallen out of scope due to disposals, asset impairments and non-recurring one off transactions which were in scope in the prior year. Our full-
scope audits are in the UK, US, Australia, Azerbaijan and Germany. 
In addition, component teams performed audit procedures on specified account balances in 24 cons units (2022 19) also covering Trinidad and Tobago, 
Mauritania & Senegal, Indonesia, Egypt, India and UAE. The group engagement team performed audit procedures on specified account balances to 
component materiality, with certain additional specific procedures performed by component teams, covering an additional 27 cons units (2022 33).
The remaining cons units are not significant individually and include many small, low risk components and balances. On average, they each represent 
0.04% of group revenue (2022 0.03%), 0.03% of property, plant and equipment (2022 0.03%) and 0.04% of profit before tax (2022 0.04%). 
In our assessment of the residual balances not covered by the above procedures, we have considered the risk that there could be a material misstatement 
within the large number of geographically dispersed businesses, in particular within the C&P segment. This assessment included use of our analytic tools 
to interrogate data, preparation of trend analysis and comparison of business performance to market benchmark prices. We also tested management's 
group-wide controls across a range of locations and segments. We concluded that through this additional risk assessment, we have reduced the audit risk 
of such a misstatement arising to a sufficiently low level.
Our audit coverage of ‘Property, plant and equipment’, ‘Sales and other operating revenue’ and ‘Profit before tax’ is materially the same as in the prior year .
 
Revenue
66%2%2%30%
Full audit scope
Specified account balances
Specified audit procedures
Review at group level
Profit before tax
65% 3%3%29%
Full audit scope
Specified account balances
Specified audit procedures
Review at group level
Property, plant & equipment
62%
5%8%25%
Full audit scope
Specified account balances
Specified audit procedures
Review at group level
7.2 Our consideration of the control environment
Our audit approach was generally to place reliance on management’s relevant controls over all business cycles affecting in scope financial statement line 
items. We tested a sample of these controls through a combination of tests of inquiry, observation, inspection and re-performance. 
In limited situations where we were not able to take a controls reliance approach due to controls being deficient and there not being sufficient mitigating or 
alternative controls we could rely on instead, we adopted a non-controls reliance approach. All control deficiencies which we considered to be significant 
were communicated to the audit committee. All other deficiencies were communicated to management. For all deficiencies identified we considered the 
impact and updated our audit plan accordingly.
The group’s financial systems environment is complex, with 140 separate IT systems scoped (including 23 systems acquired by bp through recent 
acquisitions) as being relevant to the audit for the following key locations (UK, US, Germany, Azerbaijan and Australia) as well as other minor locations. 
These systems are all directly or indirectly relevant to the entity’s financial reporting process.
We planned to rely on the General IT Controls (‘GITCs’) associated with these systems, and having tested controls over access security, change 
management, data centre operations and network operations, were able to do so .
7.3 Working with other auditors
The group audit team are responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process and provide direct oversight, review, and coordination of our 
component audit teams. We interacted regularly with the component Deloitte teams during each stage of the audit and reviewed key working papers. We 
maintained continuous and open dialogue with our component teams in addition to holding formal meetings quarterly to ensure that we were fully aware 
of their progress and results of their procedures.
Consistent with prior year, the senior statutory auditor and other group audit partners and staff conducted visits to meet with the component teams 
responsible for all of the full scope locations during the year as well as Egypt, Indonesia and Trinidad and Tobago. These visits included attending planning Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 153

meetings, discussing the audit approach including the risk assessments and any issues arising from the component team's work, meetings with local 
management, and reviewing key audit working papers on higher and significant-risk areas to drive a consistent and high-quality audit. In addition, a global 
audit planning meeting was held in London for three days in July led by the senior statutory auditor and involving the group audit team, partners and staff 
from all full scope component teams, audit teams responsible for testing at key Global Business Services (GBS) locations and senior management from 
bp.
Following the group’s decision to exit Rosneft in February 2022, Rosneft is no longer classified as a reportable segment and the investment was fully 
impaired in  that year . Accordingly, Rosneft was no longer a significant component in scope of the group audit and we therefore did not require reporting 
from Rosneft's auditor. The group audit team audited the Rosneft investment valuation and other Rosneft related judgements including the decision not to 
recognise dividends.
8.Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly 
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this 
gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.We have nothing to report 
in this regard.
9.Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to 
liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
10.Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an 
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. 
This description forms part of our auditor’s report.
11.Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined 
above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting 
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. 
11.1 Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities
In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we 
considered the following:
•our meetings throughout the year with the Group Head of Ethics and Compliance and reviews of bp’s internal ethics and compliance reporting 
summaries, including those concerning investigations.
•enquiries of management, internal audit, and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the group’s 
policies and procedures relating to:
–identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance
–detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud and
–the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
•review of the terms of reference of the Fraud Governance Board set up by management to support the creation and delivery of the Group Fraud Risk 
Strategy, periodically monitor the threat outlook and review the risk appetite.
•review of the Fraud Governance Board’s meeting minutes and its fraud risk assessment. 
•enquiries of those charged with governance with regards to the facts and circumstances related to the resignation of the former Chief Executive Officer 
and the related investigation undertaken by the Board, and the impact of this on the Board’s assessment of risk of non-compliance with laws and 
regulations.
•the group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for remuneration and bonus levels and
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
154 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

•discussions among the engagement team regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud. 
The engagement team includes audit partners and staff who have extensive experience of working with companies in the same sectors as bp operates, 
and this experience was relevant to the discussion about where fraud risks may arise. The discussions also involved fraud specialists who advised the 
engagement team of fraud schemes that had arisen in similar sectors and industries, and they participated in the initial fraud risk assessment 
discussions.
In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of management override.
We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on provisions of those laws and 
regulations that had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we 
considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, UK Corporate Governance Code, United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards 
and IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU, FRS 101, US Securities Exchange Act 1934 and relevant SEC regulations, as well as laws and 
regulations prevailing in each country in which we identified a full-scope component.
In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which 
may be fundamental to the group’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included the group’s operating licences and environmental 
regulations .
11.2 Audit response to risks identified
As a result of performing the above, we did not identify any key audit matters related to the potential risk of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We 
did identify two key audit matters relating to fraud risks, as described above, being the valuation of commodity financial derivatives, and management 
override of controls. The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we 
performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, procedures to respond to risks identified included the following:
•reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with provisions of relevant laws and 
regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements
•enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims
•obtaining confirmations from external legal counsel concerning open litigation and claims
•performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud and
•reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC and the IRS.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists 
and significant component audit teams and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
12.Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
•The information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
•The strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have 
not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
13.Corporate Governance Statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors' statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the group’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate Governance Statement is 
materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit: 
•the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material uncertainties 
identified set out on page 135
•the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the group’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the period is appropriate set out 
on page 135
•the directors' statement on fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 135
•the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on page 134
•the section of the annual report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems set out on page 134 and
•the section describing the work of the audit committee set out on pages 98-102.Financial statements
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 155

14.Matters on which we are required to report by exception
14.1  Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or
•adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us or
•the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.We have nothing to report 
in respect of these 
matters.
14.2  Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.We have nothing to report 
in respect of these 
matters.
15.Other matters which we are required to address
15.1 Auditor tenure
The board appointed Deloitte as the company's auditor with effect from 29 March 2018 to fill the vacancy arising from the resignation of the previous 
auditor. On 27 April 2023, shareholders resolved at the annual general meeting to reappoint Deloitte as auditor from the conclusion of the meeting until the 
conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2024 and authorized the directors to set the audit fees. 
The first accounting period we audited was the 12 month period ended 31 December 2018. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including 
previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 6 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2023.
15.2 Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK).
16.Use of our report
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In due course, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R, these 
financial statements will form part of the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the FCA in accordance 
with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. This auditor’s report provides no assurance over whether the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report has been 
prepared in compliance with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. 
Judith Tacon FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
8 March 2024  
This page does not form part of bp's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
156 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the shareholders and board of directors of BP p.l.c.
Opinion on the financial statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated group balance sheets of BP p.l.c. and subsidiaries (together ‘bp’ or ‘the group’) as at 31 December 2023  
and 2022, the related consolidated group income statements, group statements of comprehensive income, group statements of changes in equity and 
group cash flow statements, for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2023 , and the related notes (collectively referred to as the 
‘financial statements’). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as at 31 December 
2023  and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2023 , in accordance with 
United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and as adopted by the European Union (EU).
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), bp's internal control 
over financial reporting as of 31 December 2023 , based on criteria established in the UK Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business reporting relating to internal control over financial reporting and our report dated 8 March 2024  
expressed an unqualified opinion on bp's internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of bp’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on bp’s financial statements based on 
our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to bp in accordance with the U.S. 
federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included 
performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures 
that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or 
required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) 
involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on 
the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical 
audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
1.Impairment of upstream oil and gas property, plant and equipment (PP&E) assets – Notes 1, 4 and 12 to the financial statements 
Critical Audit Matter Description
The group balance sheet as at 31 December 2023 includes PP&E, of which $62 billion  is oil and gas properties.
Management’s best estimate of oil and gas price assumptions for value-in-use impairment tests were revised in 2023 as set out in Note 1 on page 177. 
Brent oil price and Henry Hub assumption revisions during 2023 were not significant. Management has also revised bp’s ‘best estimate’ discount rate 
assumptions for value-in-use impairment tests in 2023, as set out in Note 1 on page 177. bp’s post-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital, being the 
starting point for setting discount rates used for impairment testing for oil and gas assets, has increased to 8%, reflecting the impact of observable 
increases in risk free rates on bp’s weighted average cost of capital.
Given the significance of the discount rate assumption revisions during 2023, alongside certain CGU specific new indicators, management has tested all oil 
and gas CGUs for impairment and/or impairment reversal during the year. Management recorded $3.6 billion  of pre-tax oil and gas CGU impairment 
charges, principally due to the discount rate revisions detailed above, price revisions, increase in certain capital expenditure forecasts, operating 
expenditure forecasts and certain reserves write downs. Further information has been provided in Note 1 on page 177 and Note 4 on page 191.
We identified three key management estimates in management’s determination of the level of impairment charge and/or impairment reversal. These are:
Oil and gas prices  - bp’s oil and gas price assumptions have a significant impact on many CGU impairment assessments performed across the 
OP&O and G&LCE segments and are inherently uncertain. The estimation of future prices is subject to increased uncertainty given climate change, 
the global energy transition, macro-economic factors and disruption in global supply due to ongoing geo-political conflicts. There is a risk that 
management do not forecast reasonable ‘best estimate’ oil and gas price forecasts when assessing CGUs for impairment charge and/or impairment 
reversal, leading to material misstatements. These price assumptions are highly judgmental and are pervasive inputs to bp’s oil and gas CGU 
valuations. There is also a risk that management’s oil and gas price related disclosures are not reasonable.
Discount rates  - Given the long timeframes involved, certain CGU impairment assessments are sensitive to the discount rate applied. Discount rates 
should reflect the return required by the market and the risks inherent in the cash flows being discounted. There is a risk that management does not 
assume reasonable discount rates, adjusted as applicable for country risks and relevant tax rates, leading to material misstatements. Determining a 
reasonable discount rate is highly judgmental and, consistent with price assumptions above, the discount rate assumption is also a pervasive input 
across bp’s oil and gas CGU valuations, before adjustments for asset specific risks and tax rates.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 157

Reserves and resources estimates  - A key input to certain CGU impairment assessments is the oil and gas production forecast, which is based 
on underlying reserves estimates and field specific development assumptions. Certain CGU production forecasts include specific risk adjusted 
resource volumes, in addition to proven and/or probable reserves estimates, that are inherently less certain than reserves; and assumptions 
related to these volumes can be particularly judgemental. There is a risk that material misstatements could arise from unreasonable production 
forecasts for individually material CGUs and/or from the aggregation of systematic flaws in bp’s reserves and resources estimation policies 
across the OP&O and G&LCE segments.  
We identified certain individual CGUs which we determined would be most at risk of material impairment charges as a result of a reasonably possible 
change in the oil and gas price assumptions. This population includes previously impaired assets which are also at risk of material impairment reversal 
resulting from potential oil and gas price assumption changes. We identified that a subset of these CGUs was also individually materially sensitive to the 
discount rate assumption.
We also identified CGUs which were less sensitive as they would be potentially at risk, in aggregate, to a material impairment by a reasonably possible 
change in some or all of the key assumptions. No impairment reversals are available for these CGUs. Further information regarding these sensitivities is 
given in Note 1 on page 178.
Impairment charge and/or impairment reversal assessments of upstream oil and gas PP&E assets remain a critical audit matter because recoverable 
values are reliant on forecasts that are inherently judgemental and complex for management to estimate, and the magnitude of the potential misstatement 
risk is material to the group .
How the Critical Audit Matter was addressed in the Audit
We tested relevant internal controls over the estimation of oil and gas prices, discount rates, and reserve and resources estimates, as well as key internal 
controls over the performance of the impairment charge and/or impairment reversal assessments where we identified audit risks. In addition, we 
conducted the following substantive procedures.
Oil and gas prices 
•We independently developed a reasonable range of forecasts based on external data obtained, against which we compared management’s oil and gas 
price assumptions in order to challenge whether they are reasonable.
•In devel oping this range, we obtained a variety of reputable and reliable third party forecasts, peer information and other relevant market data. 
•In challenging management’s price assumptions, we considered the extent to which they and each of the forecast pricing scenarios obtained from third 
parties reflect the impact of lower oil and gas demand due to climate change and the energy transition. 
•The 2015 Conference of the Parties (CoP) 21 Paris Agreement goals of ‘holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above 
pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels’ was reaffirmed at CoP 28 in Dubai during 
December 2023. We specifically analysed third party forecasts stated, or interpreted by us, as being consistent with scenarios achieving the Paris ‘well 
below 2°C goal’ and/or ‘1.5°C ambition’ and evaluated whether they presented contradictory audit evidence.
•We assessed management’s disclosures in Notes 1, including the sensitivity of forecast revenue cash inflows to lower oil and gas prices and how 
climate change and the energy transition, potential future emissions costs and/or reduced demand scenarios may impact bp to a greater extent than 
currently anticipated in bp’s value-in-use estimates for oil and gas CGUs.
Discount rates
•We independently evaluated bp’s discount rates used in impairment tests with input from our valuation specialists, against relevant third party market 
and peer data.
•When performing procedures over specific assets, we assessed whether specific country risks and tax adjustments were reasonably reflected in bp’s 
discount rates.
•We challenged and evaluated management’s disclosures in Notes 1, including in relation to the sensitivity of discount rate assumptions.
Reserves and resources estimates
With the assistance of our oil and gas reserves specialists we:
•assessed bp’s reserves and resources estimation methods and policies for reasonableness
•assessed how these policies had been applied to a sample of bp’s reserves and resources estimates
•read and evaluated a sample of reports provided by management’s external reserves experts and assessed the scope of work and findings of these 
third parties
•assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of bp’s internal and external reserve experts, through understanding their relevant professional 
qualifications and experience
•assessed whether management’s production forecasts are consistent overall with bp’s strategy, including the group’s expectation to reduce its 
hydrocarbon production (by around 25% by 2030 relative to 2019 - see page 171)
•compared the production forecasts used in the impairment tests with management’s approved reserves and resources estimates and
•performed a retrospective assessment in order to assess management's ability to accurately estimate reserves and resources and to check for 
indications of estimation bias over time.
2.Decommissioning provisions – Notes 1 and 23
Critical Audit Matter Description
A decommissioning provision of $12.4 billion  is recorded in the financial statements as at 31 December 2023. The estimation of decommissioning 
provisions is a highly judgemental area as it involves a number of key estimates related to the cost and timing of decommissioning, in particular inflation 
and discount rate assumptions. Given management expects upstream hydrocarbon production to be around 25% lower by 2030 relative to 2019 as stated 
on page 171, consistency of that expectation with the timing of decommissioning expenditure and underlying cost assumptions remains a key 
consideration. 
Consistent with prior years, management estimates that the average rate of forecast inflation applicable to the substantial majority of bp’s 
decommissioning cost estimates is 1.5%, which is 0.5% lower than its estimated long term general inflation rate of 2%. 
158 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

The estimated undiscounted cost of the obligations and the timing of future payment are set out in Note 1 on page 184. Economic factors, future activities and 
the legislative environments that bp operates in are used to inform cost estimates, whereas the timing of decommissioning activities is dependent on 
cessation of production (CoP) dates, which are sensitive to changes in bp’s price forecasts as price estimates determine economic cut off of oil and gas 
reserve estimates. 
bp increased its discount rate used in calculating its decommissioning provisions from 3.5% as at 31 December 2022 to 4.0% as at 31 December 2023. The 
increase was primarily driven by the increased US treasury bond rates.
Provisions for decommissioning refining assets, not generally recognised on the basis that the potential obligations cannot be measured given their 
indeterminate settlement dates, might need to be recognised if reductions in demand due to climate change curtail their operational lives. As disclosed in Note 
1 on page 184 management concluded that, although obligations may arise if refineries cease manufacturing operations, they would only be recognised at the 
point when sufficient information became available to determine potential settlement dates. Accordingly, other than where a decision has been made to cease 
refining operations, no triggers for assessing the need to record a decommissioning provision have been identified.
How the Critical Audit Matter was addressed in the Audit
Long term Inflation rate
•We tested the control related to the determination of the decommissioning specific inflation rate assumption.
•We tested how management derived the decommissioning specific inflation rate assumption of 1.5%, and the evidence on which it is based, by gaining 
an understanding of the process used by management, testing management’s calculations of the assumption, and evaluating the evidence relevant to 
management’s assumption, both supporting and contradictory.
•As the 1.5% decommissioning specific inflation rate assumption is determined by making an adjustment to management’s 2.0% general long term 
inflation rate assumption, we evaluated the general long term inflation rate assumption used of 2.0%, comparing it against latest external market data. 
•We made inquiries and evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity, of management’s decommissioning experts who derived the 
decommissioning specific inflation rate.
•We inspected analyst forecasts and reports in respect of the future decommissioning market and related costs for evidence of supporting and 
contradictory evidence, with particular focus on the future rig market.
•We particularly considered the expectation that demand for oil and gas products and related activities will decrease, primarily in response to climate 
change and energy transition effects pivoting future energy industry investment and development activity towards renewable sources. We challenged 
and evaluated management’s assessment of the impact this will have on the decommissioning market and related inflation assumption.
•We analysed historical trends of rig market rates against oil prices and historical inflation to challenge management’s assumption that the 
decommissioning inflation assumption does not inflate at the same rate as general inflation.
Cost and timing estimates
•We tested the controls over the year end decommissioning cost and timing assumptions used within management’s decommissioning provision 
estimate.
•We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the assets subject to decommissioning, including understanding the process to establish whether a 
legal or constructive obligation existed.
•We evaluated changes in key cost assumptions including rig rates, vessel rates, well plug and abandonment duration and non-productive time 
assumptions. 
•We challenged whether the impact of inflation experienced in 2023 was appropriately considered and reflected where relevant within bp’s cost 
assumptions.
•We assessed the reasonableness of key cost assumptions with reference to internal and appropriate third party data.
•We assessed changes in assumptions for the estimated date of decommissioning and evaluated whether CoP dates used for decommissioning 
estimation are aligned with CoP assumptions in other areas, including PP&E impairment testing and oil and gas reserve estimation.
•We assessed the accuracy of bp’s disclosure of the estimated undiscounted cost of its obligations and the timing of future decommissioning 
payments.
Discount rates
•We tested the control related to the determination of the discount rate assumption.
•We assessed the reasonableness of management’s methodology for determining the discount rate and recalculated the discount rate with reference to 
independent third party data, most notably US treasury bond yields. 
Potential decommissioning of refinery assets 
•We challenged and evaluated management’s analysis which supported the judgement that no decommissioning provisions should be recognised in 
respect of refineries where there is ongoing activity and management has no current intention to cease these activities. 
•We have reviewed analysis undertaken by management, as well as third party studies, of forecast demand for refined products in regions served by bp’s 
refineries. Furthermore, we read external profitability benchmarking which supported a conclusion that the group’s remaining refineries would likely 
remain operational for longer than many of their regional competitors, in the event of refining capacity reductions. 
•We also met with refinery management to understand the potential plans under consideration for refineries in the future and obtained evidence that 
management is developing plans for the existing refinery sites remaining in the portfolio which would be compatible with net zero emissions, for 
instance through the production of alternative low carbon and sustainable fuels.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 159

3. Accounting for complex transactions executed to deliver against the wider group strategy - Notes 1, 20, 22, 29 and 30 to the 
financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
To support the overall group strategy, which includes achieving bp's 'net zero' target, bp is increasingly entering into long term arrangements that include 
gas and renewable power offtake/supply contracts in existing and new markets whilst providing solutions to bp’s customers through offering lower carbon 
hydrocarbons. Given the nature of these transactions, we direct significant audit effort towards challenging management’s adopted accounting treatment 
and/or valuation estimates.
In previous years, such activity was primarily carried out within the trading and shipping (T&S)  function . However, such activity can also originate outside of 
T&S, across segments, functions and/or geographies but in close collaboration with T&S.
These transactions may be complex and have sustainability, legal, tax or financial reporting outcomes which are new for the group and may be executed in 
reference to, or in conjunction with, existing arrangements. Determining the appropriate accounting treatment for these transactions can require a high 
degree of management judgement.
Determining the appropriate accounting treatment for these complex transactions: 
Based on our risk assessment and understanding of the underlying business rationale of such transactions, we generally consider that complexity arises 
where the arrangements exhibit one or more of the following indicators:
•Offtake/sale-purchase agreements where the group is the only key customer/supplier;
•The counterparty or the arrangement depends on the group to provide a significant level of financing;
•The group controls exclusive rights, licenses, technology, know-how etc. without which the counterparty cannot conduct its operations or the 
arrangement cannot be fulfilled;
•The arrangement exposes the group to returns/losses which are disproportionate to those which its economic interest would suggest; 
•Contractual arrangements entered into in contemplation of each other; or
•The transaction or arrangement directly impacts key performance indicators, in particular, finance debt.
The presence of any one or a combination of these indicators does not make a transaction or arrangement inherently complex but are factors we consider 
in our assessment of the risk arising from the transaction.
Accounting for such transactions can be complex and can involve significant judgement, as a feature of these transactions is that they often include 
multiple elements that will have a material impact on the presentation and disclosure in the financial statements, including in particular the classification of 
liabilities as finance debt. 
How the Critical Audit Matter was addressed in the Audit
For complex accounting transactions identified during the year, we:
•Tested controls related to the accounting for complex transactions.
•Developed an understanding of the commercial rationale of the transactions through discussions with management and reading transaction 
documents and executed agreements.
•For transactions exhibiting certain of the above indicators, performed a detailed accounting analysis leveraging the expertise of technical accounting 
specialists with experience in commodities markets.
160 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

4. Valuation of commodity financial derivatives, where fraud risks may arise in revenue recognition - Notes 1, 29 and 30 to the 
financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
bp’s trading and shipping (T&S) function is responsible for globally trading and risk managing the group’s owned as well as third party production. To 
discharge this responsibility, T&S regularly executes commodity contracts, physically settled or otherwise, which are accounted for as a derivative and fair 
valued under IFRS 9. These contracts, therefore, result in unrealised gains/losses that are recognised on account of fair value movements in the 
associated derivative assets and liabilities.
Determining the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities can be complex and subjective, particularly where the valuation is dependent on significant 
inputs which are not observable and are classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13. This degree of subjectivity also makes such fair 
value estimates prone to potential fraud by management incorporating bias in the inputs used in determining fair values. Given the significant judgements, 
sensitivity to management assumptions, and the absolute value associated with these positions, we have identified a risk in respect of certain financial 
instruments where the valuation is dependent on significant unobservable inputs.
Fair value measurements associated with unrealised commodity contracts are also impacted by the macroeconomic sentiment and outlook. In 2023, 
commodity markets remained relatively volatile due to continuing uncertainty resulting from the planned energy transition, macro-economic factors such 
as inflation and interest rates, and disruptions in global supply due to geopolitical conflicts. In response to the volatility observed, we focused our audit 
efforts on the valuation of all commodity derivatives and designed procedures specifically to test for management bias. 
As at 31 December 2023, the group’s total level 3 derivative financial assets were $9.2 billion  and level 3 derivative financial liabilities were $7.1 billion .
How the Critical Audit Matter was addressed in the Audit
In response to the above, we analysed the population of these instruments to assess the level of unobservability of the inputs used in their valuation and 
then further disaggregated the population into different risk populations which in turn drove the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures.
To address the complexities associated with auditing the valuation of instruments dependent on significant unobservable inputs, we included valuation 
specialists with significant quantitative and modelling expertise to assist in performing our audit procedures. Our valuation audit included the following 
control and substantive procedures:
•We tested the group’s valuation controls including:
–the model certification control, which is designed to review a model’s theoretical soundness and the appropriateness of its valuation methodology; 
and
–the independent price verification control, which is designed to review the appropriateness of valuation inputs that are not observable and are 
significant to the financial instrument’s valuation.
•We performed valuation testing procedures at interim and year-end balance sheet dates, including:
–comparing management’s input assumptions against the expected assumptions of other market participants and observable market data;
–evaluating management’s valuation methodologies against standard valuation practice and analysing whether a consistent framework is applied 
across the business period over period; and
–engaging our valuation specialists to challenge models, develop fair value estimates and evaluate consistency in management’s modelling and input 
assumptions throughout the year.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 161

5. Impairment of E&A assets, investments in joint ventures and refinery PP&E as a consequence, among other things, of climate 
change and the energy transition – Notes 1, 4, 15 and 16
Critical Audit Matter Description
Intangible Assets
The recoverability of certain of the group’s $4.3 billion  total exploration and appraisal (E&A) assets capitalised as at 31 December 2023 is potentially 
exposed to climate change and the global energy transition risk factors (see Note 15). This is because a greater number of E&A projects may not proceed 
as a consequence of the energy transition leading to lower forecast future oil and gas prices, and bp’s intention to reduce its hydrocarbon production (by 
around 25% by 2030 relative to 2019 – see page 171). The determination of whether and when E&A costs should be written off, impaired, or retained on 
the balance sheet as E&A assets, remains complex and continues to require significant management judgement.
PP&E and Investment in joint ventures
The carrying value of bp’s refining assets within PP&E may no longer be recoverable, due to changes in supply and demand which arise as a consequence 
of climate change and the energy transition. Management identified impairment indicators in respect of the Gelsenkirchen refinery during the year and as a 
result, an impairment test was performed to assess the recoverability of the refinery carrying value. As disclosed in Note 4 to the accounts on page 192, 
management has recorded an impairment charge of $1.3 billion in respect of the Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany, primarily driven by changes in 
economic assumptions.
There is also a risk that the carrying value of the group’s investments in low carbon energy assets may no longer be recoverable due to an increase in the 
low carbon energy discount rate (the renewable power assets discount rate) as well as increased project development costs, which have been impacted by 
higher inflation and activity levels within the sector (as a result of the energy transition). These factors are adversely impacting the value of low carbon 
energy projects, impacting investment decisions. As a result, impairment tests(which include judgements in relation to the fair value of land and sea bed 
leases, capital and operating cost assumptions and forecast yield and power price assumptions) were performed to assess the recoverability of the 
group’s low carbon energy assets, resulting in an impairment recognised by equity accounted entities of $1.3 billion, as disclosed in Note 16 to the 
accounts on page 208.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
A climate change steering committee comprising a group of senior partners and specialists with specific climate change and technical audit and 
accounting expertise within Deloitte was utilised to provide an independent challenge to our key decisions and conclusions with respect to this area.
Intangible Assets 
In respect of the recoverability of E&A assets capitalised as at 31 December 2023:
•We tested the relevant controls within the group’s E&A write-off and impairment assessment processes. 
•We challenged and evaluated management’s key E&A judgements with regards to the impairment criteria of IFRS 6. Where impairment indicators were 
identified we corroborated key judgements with internal and external evidence for assets that remained on the balance sheet. This included analysing 
evidence of future E&A plans, budgets and capital allocation decisions, assessing management’s key accounting judgement papers, reading meeting 
minutes and assessing licence documentation and evidence of active dialogue with partners and regulators including negotiations to renew licences or 
modify key terms. 
PP&E and Investment in joint ventures
We considered the impact of potential changes in supply and demand on the group’s refining portfolio and assessed internal and external market studies 
of future supply and demand. In relation to the Gelsenkirchen refinery impairment test, we assessed the valuation methodology, tested the integrity and 
mechanical accuracy of the impairment model and assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions and inputs, notably forecast refining margins and 
energy input costs, challenging and evaluating management’s assumptions by reference to third party data where available. We also evaluated 
management’s ability to forecast future cash flows and margins by comparing actual results to historical forecasts and tested management’s internal 
controls over the impairment test and related inputs.
In respect of the impairment tests performed on certain offshore wind asset low carbon energy investments, we tested the result by:
•Testing the relevant controls over these low carbon energy impairment tests including controls over key assumptions and the discount rate
•Assessing the low carbon energy discount rate with input from our valuation specialists
•Challenging and evaluating the key assumptions within the impairment tests. This included the fair value of land and sea bed leases, capital and 
operating cost assumptions and forecast yield and power price assumptions impacting the fair value of the development project, and
•Testing the mechanical accuracy of the impairment models.
/s/ Deloitte LLP
London
United Kingdom
8 March 2024
We have served as bp’s auditor since 2018. 
162 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the shareholders and board of directors of BP p.l.c.
Opinion on internal control over financial reporting 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of BP p.l.c. and its subsidiaries (the group) as of 31 December 2023 , based on the criteria 
established in the UK Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting relating 
to internal control over financial reporting (UK FRC Guidance). In our opinion, the group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over 
financial reporting as of 31 December 2023 , based on the criteria established in the UK FRC Guidance.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated 
financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2023 , of the group and our report dated 8 March 2024  expressed an unqualified opinion on 
those financial statements.
As described in management’s report on internal control over financial reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over 
financial reporting at ‘TravelCenters of America Inc.’ (TCA) which was acquired on 15 May 2023. TCA’s financial statements constitute 2.1% and 1.5% of 
net and total assets, respectively, 2.8% of ’Sales and other operating revenues’, and 4% of ‘profit (loss) for the year’ of the consolidated financial statement 
amounts as of and for the year ended 31 December 2023. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at TCA.
Basis for opinion
The Group’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of 
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on the group’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the 
PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the group in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an 
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the 
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of 
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Deloitte LLP  
London, United Kingdom
8 March 2024
1. The maintenance and integrity of the BP p.l.c. web site is the responsibility of BP p.l.c.; the work carried out by the auditors 
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that 
may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 163

Group income statement
For the year ended 31 December $ million
 Note 2023 2022 2021
Sales and other operating revenues  6  210,130  241,392  157,739 
Earnings from joint ventures – after interest and tax  16  67  1,128  543 
Earnings from associates – after interest and tax  17  831  1,402  3,456 
Interest and other income  7  1,635  1,103  581 
Gains on sale of businesses and fixed assets  4  369  3,866  1,876 
Total revenues and other income  213,032  248,891  164,195 
Purchases  19  119,307  141,043  92,923 
Production and manufacturing expenses  25,044  28,610  25,843 
Production and similar taxes  5  1,779  2,325  1,308 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  5  15,928  14,318  14,805 
Net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assets  4  5,857  30,522  (1,121) 
Exploration expense  8  997  585  424 
Distribution and administration expenses  16,772  13,449  11,931 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation  27,348  18,039  18,082 
Finance costs  7  3,840  2,703  2,857 
Net finance (income) expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits  24  (241)  (69)  (2) 
Profit (loss) before taxation  23,749  15,405  15,227 
Taxation  9  7,869  16,762  6,740 
Profit (loss) for the year  15,880  (1,357)  8,487 
Attributable to
   bp shareholders  15,239  (2,487)  7,565 
   Non-controlling interests  641  1,130  922 
 15,880  (1,357)  8,487 
Earnings per share
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders
Per ordinary share (cents)
   Basic  11  87.78  (13.10)  37.57 
   Diluted  11  85.85  (13.10)  37.33 
Per ADS (dollars)
Basic  11  5.27  (0.79)  2.25 
Diluted  11  5.15  (0.79)  2.24 
164 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Group statement of comprehensive incomea
For the year ended 31 December  $ million 
Note 2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) for the year  15,880  (1,357)  8,487 
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences  585  (3,786)  (921) 
Exchange (gains) losses on translation of foreign operations reclassified to gain or loss on sale of 
businesses and fixed assets  (2)  10,759  36 
Cash flow hedges marked to market  30  1,065  (825)  (430) 
Cash flow hedges reclassified to the income statement  30  (428)  1,502  255 
Costs of hedging marked to market  30  (67)  61  (105) 
Costs of hedging reclassified to the income statement  30  (11)  25  21 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax 16, 17  (192)  402  44 
Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified  9  (10)  (334)  65 
 940  7,804  (1,035) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  24  (2,262)  340  4,416 
Remeasurements of equity investments  51  —  — 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  30  15  (4)  1 
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified  9  745  68  (1,317) 
 (1,451)  404  3,100 
Other comprehensive income  (511)  8,208  2,065 
Total comprehensive income  15,369  6,851  10,552 
Attributable to
bp shareholders  14,702  5,782  9,654 
Non-controlling interests  667  1,069  898 
 15,369  6,851  10,552 
aSee Note 32  for further information.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 165

Group statement of changes in equitya
 $ million 
Share 
capital and 
capital 
reservesTreasury 
sharesForeign 
currency 
translation 
reserveFair value 
reservesProfit and 
loss accountbp 
shareholders' 
equityNon-controlling interests
Total equityHybrid 
bondsOther 
interest
At 1 January 2023  47,873  (12,153)  (2,643)  (256)  34,732  67,553  13,390  2,047  82,990 
Profit for the year  —  —  —  —  15,239  15,239  586  55  15,880 
Other comprehensive income  —  —  728  431  (1,696)  (537)  —  26  (511) 
Total comprehensive income  —  —  728  431  13,543  14,702  586  81  15,369 
Dividendsb —  —  —  —  (4,831)  (4,831)  —  (403)  (5,234) 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance 
sheet, net of tax  —  —  —  (1)  —  (1)  —  —  (1) 
Repurchase of ordinary share capital  —  —  —  —  (8,167)  (8,167)  —  —  (8,167) 
Share-based payments, net of tax  140  830  —  —  (301)  669  —  —  669 
Share of equity-accounted entities’ changes in 
equity, net of tax  —  —  —  —  1  1  —  —  1 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  (1)  (1)  176  —  175 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  (5)  —  —  (5)  (586)  —  (591) 
Transactions involving non-controlling interests, 
net of tax  —  —  —  —  363  363  —  (81)  282 
At 31 December 2023  48,013  (11,323)  (1,920)  174  35,339  70,283  13,566  1,644  85,493 
At 1 January 2022  46,871  (12,624)  (9,572)  (1,027)  51,815  75,463  13,041  1,935  90,439 
Profit for the year  —  —  —  —  (2,487)  (2,487)  519  611  (1,357) 
Other comprehensive income  —  —  6,914  770  585  8,269  —  (61)  8,208 
Total comprehensive income  —  —  6,914  770  (1,902)  5,782  519  550  6,851 
Dividendsb —  —  —  —  (4,365)  (4,365)  —  (294)  (4,659) 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance 
sheet, net of tax  —  —  —  1  —  1  —  —  1 
Issue of ordinary share capital  820  —  —  —  —  820  —  —  820 
Repurchase of ordinary share capital  —  —  —  —  (10,493)  (10,493)  —  —  (10,493) 
Share-based payments, net of tax  182  471  —  —  194  847  —  —  847 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  (4)  (4)  374  —  370 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  15  —  —  15  (544)  —  (529) 
Transactions involving non-controlling interests, 
net of tax  —  —  —  —  (513)  (513)  —  (144)  (657) 
At 31 December 2022  47,873  (12,153)  (2,643)  (256)  34,732  67,553  13,390  2,047  82,990 
At 1 January 2021  46,701  (13,224)  (8,719)  (808)  47,300  71,250  12,076  2,242  85,568 
Profit for the year  —  —  —  —  7,565  7,565  507  415  8,487 
Other comprehensive income  —  —  (846)  (209)  3,144  2,089  —  (24)  2,065 
Total comprehensive income  —  —  (846)  (209)  10,709  9,654  507  391  10,552 
Dividendsb —  —  —  —  (4,316)  (4,316)  —  (311)  (4,627) 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance 
sheet, net of tax —  —  —  (10)  —  (10)  —  —  (10) 
Repurchase of ordinary share capital  —  —  —  —  (3,151)  (3,151)  —  —  (3,151) 
Share-based payments, net of tax  170  600  —  —  (138)  632  —  —  632 
Share of equity-accounted entities’ changes in 
equity, net of tax  —  —  —  —  556  556  —  —  556 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  (26)  (26)  950  —  924 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  (7)  —  —  (7)  (492)  —  (499) 
Transactions involving non-controlling interests, 
net of tax  —  —  —  —  881  881  —  (387)  494 
At 31 December 2021  46,871  (12,624)  (9,572)  (1,027)  51,815  75,463  13,041  1,935  90,439 
aSee Note 32  for further information.
bSee Note 10  for further information.
166 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Group balance sheet
At 31 December $ million
Note 2023 2022
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment  12  104,719  106,044 
Goodwill  14  12,472  11,960 
Intangible assets  15  9,991  10,200 
Investments in joint ventures  16  12,435  12,400 
Investments in associates  17  7,814  8,201 
Other investments  18  2,189  2,670 
Fixed assets  149,620  151,475 
Loans  1,942  1,271 
Trade and other receivables  20  1,767  1,092 
Derivative financial instruments  30  9,980  12,841 
Prepayments  623  576 
Deferred tax assets  9  4,268  3,908 
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses  24  7,948  9,269 
 176,148  180,432 
Current assets
Loans  240  315 
Inventories  19  22,819  28,081 
Trade and other receivables  20  31,123  34,010 
Derivative financial instruments  30  12,583  11,554 
Prepayments  2,520  2,092 
Current tax receivable  837  621 
Other investments  18  843  578 
Cash and cash equivalents  25  33,030  29,195 
 103,995  106,446 
Assets classified as held for sale  2  151  1,242 
 104,146  107,688 
Total assets  280,294  288,120 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables  22  61,155  63,984 
Derivative financial instruments  30  5,250  12,618 
Accruals  6,527  6,398 
Lease liabilities  28  2,650  2,102 
Finance debt  26  3,284  3,198 
Current tax payable  2,732  4,065 
Provisions  23  4,418  6,332 
 86,016  98,697 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale  2  62  321 
 86,078  99,018 
Non-current liabilities
Other payables  22  10,076  10,387 
Derivative financial instruments  30  10,402  13,537 
Accruals  1,310  1,233 
Lease liabilities  28  8,471  6,447 
Finance debt  26  48,670  43,746 
Deferred tax liabilities  9  9,617  10,526 
Provisions  23  14,721  14,992 
Defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefit plan deficits  24  5,456  5,244 
 108,723  106,112 
Total liabilities  194,801  205,130 
Net assets  85,493  82,990 
Equity
bp shareholders’ equity  32  70,283  67,553 
Non-controlling interests  32  15,210  15,437 
Total equity  32  85,493  82,990 
Helge Lund  Chair
Murray Auchincloss  Chief executive officer
8 March 2024Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 167

Group cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December $ million
Note 2023 2022 2021
Operating activities
Profit (loss) before taxation  23,749  15,405  15,227 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before taxation to net cash provided by operating activities
Exploration expenditure written off  8  746  385  167 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  5  15,928  14,318  14,805 
Impairment and (gain) loss on sale of businesses and fixed assets  4  5,488  26,656  (2,997) 
Earnings from joint ventures and associates  (898)  (2,530)  (3,999) 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates  2,092  1,700  1,842 
Interest receivable  (1,265)  (444)  (235) 
Interest received  1,119  414  320 
Finance costs  7  3,840  2,703  2,857 
Interest paid  (2,950)  (2,208)  (2,474) 
Net finance expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits  24  (241)  (69)  (2) 
Share-based payments  616  795  627 
Net operating charge for pensions and other post-retirement benefits, less contributions and 
benefit payments for unfunded plans  24  (193)  (257)  (655) 
Net charge for provisions, less payments  (2,481)  440  2,934 
(Increase) decrease in inventories  5,634  (5,492)  (7,458) 
(Increase) decrease in other current and non-current assets  4,620  (18,584)  (13,263) 
Increase (decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities  (13,592)  17,806  20,095 
Income taxes paid  (10,173)  (10,106)  (4,179) 
Net cash provided by operating activities  32,039  40,932  23,612 
Investing activities
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible and other assets  (14,285)  (12,069)  (10,887) 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired  3  (799)  (3,530)  (186) 
Investment in joint ventures  (1,039)  (600)  (1,440) 
Investment in associates  (130)  (131)  (335) 
Total cash capital expenditure  (16,253)  (16,330)  (12,848) 
Proceeds from disposals of fixed assets  4  133  709  1,145 
Proceeds from disposals of businesses, net of cash disposed  4  1,193  1,841  5,812 
Proceeds from loan repayments  55  67  197 
Net cash used in investing activities  (14,872)  (13,713)  (5,694) 
Financing activities
Repurchase of shares  (7,918)  (9,996)  (3,151) 
Lease liability payments  (2,560)  (1,961)  (2,082) 
Proceeds from long-term financing  7,568  2,013  6,987 
Repayments of long-term financing  (3,902)  (11,697)  (16,804) 
Net increase (decrease) in short-term debt  (861)  (1,392)  1,077 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  175  370  924 
Payments relating to perpetual hybrid bonds  (1,008)  (708)  (538) 
Payments relating to transactions involving non-controlling interests (other)  (187)  (9)  (560) 
Receipts relating to transactions involving non-controlling interests (other)  546  11  683 
Dividends paid
bp shareholders  10  (4,809)  (4,358)  (4,304) 
Non-controlling interests  (403)  (294)  (311) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities  (13,359)  (28,021)  (18,079) 
Currency translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents  27  (684)  (269) 
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  3,835  (1,486)  (430) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  29,195  30,681  31,111 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  33,030  29,195  30,681 
168 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Notes on financial statements
1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  
Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of BP p.l.c and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as bp or the group) were approved and signed by the chief 
executive officer and chairman on 8 March 2024  having been duly authorized to do so by the board of directors. BP p.l.c. is a  public limited company  
incorporated and domiciled in  England and Wales . The consolidated financial statements  have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted 
international accounting standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB) and as adopted by the European Union (EU) and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies 
reporting under international accounting standards. IFRS as adopted by the UK does not differ from IFRS as adopted by the EU. IFRS as adopted by the UK 
and EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB. The differences have no impact on the  group’s consolidated financial statements for 
the years presented.  The material accounting policy information and accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions of the  group are set out below.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated  financial statements  have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations issued and effective for the year ended  31 December 2023 . The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all 
years presented, except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars ($ million), except where 
otherwise indicated.
Material accounting policy information: use of judgements, estimates and assumptions
Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements is the need for  bp management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, 
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. The accounting 
judgements and estimates that have a significant impact on the results of the group are set out in boxed text below, and should be read in conjunction with 
the information provided in the Notes on financial statements.  
The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are:  accounting for the 
investments in Rosneft and Aker BP;  exploration and appraisal intangible assets ; the recoverability of asset carrying values, including the estimation of 
reserves; supplier financing arrangements; derivative financial instruments; provisions and contingencies; pensions and other post-retirement benefits; and 
taxation. Judgements and estimates, not all of which are significant, made in assessing the impact of the current economic and geopolitical environment, 
and climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy on the consolidated financial statements are also set out in boxed text below. Where an 
estimate has a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year this is 
specifically noted within the boxed text.  Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 169

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Judgements and estimates made in assessing the impact of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy
Climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy were considered in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These may have 
significant impacts on the currently reported amounts of the group’s assets and liabilities discussed below and on similar assets and liabilities that may 
be recognized in the future. The group’s assumptions for investment appraisal (see page 30) form part of an investment decision-making framework for 
currently unsanctioned future capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, and intangibles including exploration and appraisal assets, that is 
designed to support the effective and resilient implementation of bp’s strategy. The price assumptions used for investment appraisal include oil and gas 
price assumptions, which are producer prices and are therefore net of any future carbon prices that the purchaser may be required to pay, and an 
assumption of a single carbon emissions cost imposed on the producer in respect of operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (carbon dioxide and 
methane) in order to incentivize engineering solutions to mitigate GHG emissions on projects. The group's oil and gas price assumptions for value-in-use 
impairment testing are aligned with those investment appraisal assumptions. The assumptions for future carbon emissions costs in value-in-use 
impairment testing differ from the investment appraisal assumptions and are described below.
Management has also not identified any off-balance sheet commodity purchase obligations to be onerous contracts as result of the transition to a lower 
carbon economy at 31 December 2023.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill
The energy transition is likely to impact the future prices of commodities such as oil and natural gas which in turn may affect the recoverable amount of 
property, plant and equipment and goodwill in the oil and gas industry. Management’s best estimate of oil and natural gas price assumptions for value-in-
use impairment testing were revised during 2023. Prices are disclosed in real 2022 terms. The near term Brent oil assumption was held constant at $70 
per barrel to reflect near-term supply constraints before declining after 2030 to $50 per barrel by 2050 continuing to reflect the assumption that as the 
energy system decarbonizes, falling oil demand will cause oil prices to decline. The price assumptions for Henry Hub gas up to 2050 were held constant 
at $4.00  per mmBtu reflecting an assumption that declining domestic demand in the US is offset by higher LNG exports. The revised assumptions for 
Brent oil and Henry Hub gas sit within the range of external scenarios considered by management and are in line with a range of transition paths 
consistent with the temperature goal of the Paris climate change agreement, of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C 
above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
As noted above, the group’s investment appraisal process includes a carbon emissions price series for the investment economics which is applied to 
bp's anticipated share of bp's forecast of the investment assets' scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions where they exceed defined thresholds, and is assumed to 
apply whether or not bp is the asset operator. However, for value-in-use impairment testing on bp's existing cash generating units (CGUs), consistent with 
all other relevant cash flows estimated, bp is required to reflect management's best estimate of any expected applicable carbon emission costs payable 
by bp, including where bp is not the operator, in the future for each jurisdiction in which the group has interests. This requires management’s best 
estimate of how future changes to relevant carbon emission cost policies and/or legislation are likely to affect the future cash flows of the group’s 
applicable CGUs, whether currently enacted or not. Future potential carbon pricing and/or costs of carbon emissions allowances are included in the 
value-in-use calculations to the extent management has sufficient information to make such an estimate. Currently this results in limited application of 
carbon price assumptions in value-in-use impairment tests given that carbon pricing legislation in most impacted jurisdictions where the group has 
interests is not in place and there is not sufficient information available as to the relevant policy makers' future intentions regarding carbon pricing to 
support an estimate. A key input into the determination of impairment is the assumption, aligned with bp’s aim to reach net zero greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2050 or sooner, that the current recognized portfolio of oil and gas properties and refining assets will have an immaterial carrying value by 
2050. 
170 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Where we consider that the outcome of a value-in-use impairment test could be significantly affected by a carbon price in place in any jurisdiction, this is 
incorporated into the value-in use impairment testing cash flows. The most significant instances where a carbon price has been incorporated in the 2023 
value-in-use impairment tests is for the UK North Sea and the Gelsenkirchen refinery. The assumptions for UK North Sea were £45/tCO 2e in 2024 
gradually increasing to £201 /tCO 2e in 2050. The assumption applied for the Gelsenkirchen refinery was an average of approximately €72/tCO 2e.
However, as bp’s forecast future prices are producer prices, the group considers it reasonable to assume that if, in addition to the costs already in place, 
further scope 1 and 2 emission costs were partially to be borne directly by oil and gas producers including bp in future and the prevalence of such costs 
were to become widespread, the gross oil and gas prices realized by producers would be correspondingly higher over the long term, resulting in no 
expected overall materially negative impacts on the group’s net cash flows. See significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of asset carrying 
values for further information including sensitivity analysis in relation to reasonably possible changes in the price assumptions and carbon costs. 
Production assumptions within upstream property, plant and equipment and goodwill value-in-use impairment tests reflect management’s current best 
estimate of future production of the existing upstream portfolio. The group sees the expected reduction in upstream hydrocarbon production by around 
25% by 2030 from its 2019 baseline (see page 13) being achieved through future active management, including divestments, and high-grading of the 
portfolio. Changes in upstream production since 2019 will be included in the best estimate to the extent the divestments have been announced or 
completed however, as the specific future changes to the remainder of the portfolio are not yet known, the current best estimate used for accounting 
purposes does not include the full extent of the expected upstream production reduction. See significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of 
asset carrying values and Note 14 for sensitivity analyses in relation to reasonably possible changes in production for upstream oil and gas properties 
and goodwill respectively.
Impairment charges were recognized on certain upstream oil and gas properties partly as a result of price and discount rate changes. See Note 4 for 
further information. 
For the customers & products segment, though the energy transition may impact demand for certain refined products in the future, management 
anticipates sufficiently robust demand for the remainder of each refinery’s useful life.
Management will continue to review price assumptions as the energy transition progresses and this may result in impairment charges or reversals in the 
future. 
Exploration and appraisal intangible assets
The energy transition may affect the future development or viability of exploration prospects. The recoverability of the group's exploration and appraisal 
intangible assets was considered during 2023. No significant write-offs were identified. These assets will continue to be assessed as the energy 
transition progresses. See significant judgement: exploration and appraisal intangible assets and Note 8 for further information. 
Property, plant and equipment – depreciation and expected useful lives
The energy transition may curtail the expected useful lives of oil and gas industry assets thereby accelerating depreciation charges. However, a 
significant majority of bp’s existing upstream oil and natural gas properties are likely to have immaterial carrying values within the next 12 years and, as 
outlined in bp's strategy, oil and natural gas production will remain an important part of bp’s business activities over that period. The significant majority 
of refining assets, recognized on the group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2023 that are subject to depreciation, will be depreciated within the next 12 
years; demand for refined products is expected to remain sufficient to support the remaining useful lives of existing assets. Therefore, management does 
not expect the useful lives of bp’s reported property, plant and equipment to change and do not consider this to be a significant accounting judgement or 
estimate. Significant capital expenditure is still required for ongoing projects as well as renewal and/or replacement of aged assets and therefore the 
useful lives of future capital expenditure may be different. See material accounting policy: property, plant and equipment for more information. 
Provisions: decommissioning 
The energy transition may bring forward the decommissioning of oil and gas industry assets thereby increasing the present value of associated 
decommissioning provisions. The majority of bp’s existing upstream oil and gas properties are expected to start decommissioning within the next two 
decades. The group’s expectation to reduce its upstream hydrocarbon production by around 25% by 2030 from its 2019 baseline (see page 13) is 
expected to be achieved through future active management, including divestments, and high-grading of the portfolio. Any resulting increases or 
decreases to the weighted average timing of decommissioning will be driven by the profile of assets held in the revised portfolio. Currently, the expected 
timing of decommissioning expenditures for the upstream oil and gas assets in the group’s portfolio has not materially been brought forward. 
Management does not expect a reasonably possible change of two years in the expected timing of all decommissioning to have a material effect on the 
upstream decommissioning provisions, assuming cost assumptions remain unchanged. 
Decommissioning cost estimates are based on the known regulatory and external environment. These cost estimates may change in the future, including 
as a result of the transition to a lower carbon economy. For refineries, decommissioning provisions are generally not recognized as the associated 
obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, typically driven by the cessation of manufacturing. Management does not expect manufacturing to 
cease at refineries within a determinate period of time, as existing property, plant and equipment is expected to be renewed or replaced.  Management 
will continue to review facts and circumstances to assess if decommissioning provisions need to be recognized. Decommissioning provisions relating to 
refineries at 31 December 2023 are not material. See significant judgements and estimates: provisions for further information.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 171

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Judgements and estimates made in assessing the impact of the geopolitical and economic environment
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the following areas involving judgement and estimates were identified as most relevant with regards 
to the impact of the current geopolitical and economic environment. 
Oil and gas price assumptions
Oil and gas price assumptions applied in value-in-use impairment testing have been updated to reflect the current outlook on Brent oil supply constraints 
and an assumption that declining domestic natural gas demand in the US is offset by higher LNG exports. See significant judgements and estimates: 
recoverability of asset carrying values for further information.
Discount rate assumptions
The discount rates used for impairment testing and provisions were reassessed during the year in light of changing economic and geopolitical outlooks. 
The nominal discount rate applied to provisions was increased during the year to reflect higher US Treasury yields. The principal impact of this rate 
increase was a $0.9 billion  decrease in the decommissioning provision with an associated decrease in the carrying amount of property, plant and 
equipment of $0.7 billion  and a pre-tax credit to the income statement of $0.2 billion . Impairment discount rates were also increased from those reported 
in 2022. See significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of asset carrying values and provisions for further information. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The volatility in the financial markets during 2023 impacted the assumptions used for determining the fair value of plan assets and the present value of 
defined benefit obligations in the group’s defined benefit pension plans. See significant estimate: pensions and other post-retirement benefits and Note 
24 for further information.
Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of BP p.l.c. and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year. Subsidiaries are 
consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, including when control is obtained via potential voting 
rights, and continue to be consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. Intra-group 
balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated. Unrealized losses are eliminated unless 
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to bp shareholders. Included within non-
controlling interests are perpetual subordinated hybrid securities issued by subsidiaries and for which the group has the unconditional right to avoid 
transferring cash or another financial asset to the holders. Profit or loss attributable to bp shareholders is adjusted to reflect the coupon/interest related to 
these hybrid securities whether or not such distribution has been deferred. 
Interests in other entities
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair 
values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount recognized for any non-controlling interest and 
the acquisition-date fair values of any previously held interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
at the acquisition date. The amount recognized for any non-controlling interest is measured at the present ownership's proportionate share in the 
recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating 
units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to benefit from the combination’s synergies. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses.  Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to  1 January 2003 is stated at the previous carrying amount 
under UK generally accepted accounting practice, less subsequent impairments.
Goodwill may arise upon investments in joint ventures and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over the  group’s share of the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets and liabilities. Any such goodwill is recorded within the corresponding investment in joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill may also arise upon acquisition of interests in joint operations that meet the definition of a business. The amount of goodwill separately 
recognized is the excess of the consideration transferred over the  group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities.  
Interests in joint arrangements
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting as 
described below.
Certain of the group’s activities, particularly in the oil production & operations and gas & low carbon energy segments, are conducted through joint 
operations.  bp recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these joint 
operations incurred jointly with the other partners, along with the group’s revenue  from the sale of its share of the output and any liabilities and expenses 
that the group has incurred in relation to the joint operation.
For joint arrangements in a separate entity, judgement may be required as to whether the arrangement should be classified as a joint venture or if the legal 
form, contractual arrangements or other facts and circumstances indicate that the group has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the 
arrangement, rather than rights to the net assets, and therefore should be classified as a joint operation. No such judgement made by the  group is 
considered significant. 
Interests in associates
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting as 
described below.
172 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Significant judgement: investment in Aker BP
Judgement is required in assessing the level of control or influence over another entity in which the group holds an interest. For bp, the judgement that 
the group has significant influence over Aker BP, a Norwegian oil and gas company, is significant. 
As a consequence of this judgement, bp uses the equity method of accounting for its investment and bp's share of Aker BP's oil and natural gas reserves 
is included in the group's estimated net proved reserves of equity-accounted entities. If significant influence was not present, the investment would be 
accounted for as an investment in an equity instrument measured at fair value as described under 'Financial assets' below and no share of Aker BP's oil 
and natural gas reserves would be reported.
Significant influence is defined in IFRS as the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint 
control of those decisions. Significant influence is presumed when an entity owns 20% or more of the voting power of the investee. Significant influence 
is presumed not to be present when an entity owns less than 20% of the voting power of the investee. 
bp owned 15.9%  of the voting shares at 31 December 2023. bp’s group chief executive officer, Murray Auchincloss, has been a member of the Aker BP 
board since 2017. bp’s other nominated director, group chief financial officer, Kate Thomson, has been a member of the Aker BP board since formation 
of that company in 2016. She is also a member of the Aker BP board’s Audit and Risk Committee. bp also holds the voting rights at general meetings of 
shareholders conferred by its stake in Aker BP. bp's management considers, therefore , that the group continues to have significant influence at 31 
December 2023.
Significant judgements and estimate: investment in Rosneft
Since the first quarter 2022, bp accounts for its interest in Rosneft and its other businesses with Rosneft within Russia, as financial assets measured at 
fair value within ‘Other investments’. bp is not able to sell its Rosneft shares on the Moscow Stock Exchange and is unable to ascribe probabilities to 
possible outcomes of any exit process. It is considered by management that any measure of fair value, other than nil, would be subject to such high 
measurement uncertainty, considering the sanctions and restrictions implemented by Russia on Russian assets held by foreign investors, that no 
estimate would provide useful information even if it were accompanied by a description of the estimate made in producing it and an explanation of the 
uncertainties that affect the estimate. Accordingly, it is not currently possible to estimate any carrying value other than zero  when determining the 
measurement of the interest in Rosneft and the other businesses with Rosneft within Russia as at 31 December 2023. Events or outcomes within the 
next financial year, that are different to those outlined above, could materially change the fair value of the investment.
Russia has imposed restrictions on the payments of dividends to certain foreign shareholders, including those based in the UK, requiring such dividends 
to be paid in roubles into restricted bank accounts and a requirement for approval of the Russian government for transfers from any such bank accounts 
out of Russia. Given the restrictions applicable to such accounts, management has made the significant judgement that the criteria for recognizing any 
dividend income from Rosneft and its other businesses with Rosneft within Russia, for the years to 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2023 have not 
been met. 
The equity method of accounting
Under the equity method, an investment is carried on the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the  group’s  share of net assets of the 
entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of the investment. Loans advanced to equity-accounted entities that have the 
characteristics of equity financing are also included in the investment on the  group  balance sheet. The  group income statement reflects the  group’s share 
of the results after tax of the equity-accounted entity, adjusted to account for depreciation, amortization and any impairment of the equity-accounted 
entity’s assets based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. The group statement of comprehensive income includes the  group’s share of the equity-
accounted entity’s other comprehensive income. The group’s share of amounts recognized directly in equity by an equity-accounted entity is recognized in 
the group’s  statement of changes in equity.
Financial statements of equity-accounted entities are typically prepared for the same reporting year as the  group . Where material differences arise in the 
accounting policies used by the equity-accounted entity and those used by bp, adjustments are made to those financial statements to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those of the  group . Unrealized gains on transactions, apart from those that meet the definition of a derivative, between the 
group  and its equity-accounted entities are eliminated to the extent of the group’s  interest in the equity-accounted entity. This includes unrealized gains 
arising on contribution of a business on formation of an equity-accounted entity. 
Segmental reporting
The group’s operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief executive officer, 
bp’s chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the group’s accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that 
the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision maker. For bp, 
this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost profit before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is 
arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses from profit before interest and tax. Replacement cost profit for the group is not a recognized 
measure under IFRS. 
For further information see Note 5 . 
Foreign currency translation
In individual subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, transactions  in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency of those entities 
at the spot exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the 
functional currency at the spot exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement , unless 
hedge accounting is applied.  Non-monetary items, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated subsequent to initial recognition.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 173

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates, and related 
goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the spot exchange rate on the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows of non-US dollar functional 
currency subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates of exchange. In the consolidated financial 
statements, exchange  adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency  
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates  are translated into US dollars are recognized in a separate component of equity and reported in other 
comprehensive income.  Exchange gains and losses arising on long-term intra-group foreign currency borrowings used to finance the  group’s non-US dollar 
investments are also reported in other comprehensive income if the borrowings form part of the net investment in the subsidiary, joint venture or 
associate. On disposal or for certain partial disposals of a non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the related accumulated 
exchange gains and losses recognized in equity are reclassified from equity to the income statement.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Significant non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets. Management must be committed to 
the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification as held for sale, and 
actions required to complete the plan of sale should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be 
withdrawn.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortized, and equity accounting of associates and joint ventures is ceased 
once classified as held for sale.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, biogas rights agreements, 
digital assets, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses.
Intangible assets are carried initially at cost unless acquired as part of a business combination. Any such asset is measured at fair value at the date of the 
business combination and is recognized separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
Intangible assets with a finite life, other than capitalized exploration and appraisal costs as described below, are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
their expected useful lives. For patents , licences and trademarks, expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal agreement and economic 
useful life, and can range from three  to fifteen years . The expected useful life of biogas rights agreements is the shorter of the duration of the legal 
agreement and economic useful life and can be up to 50 years . Digital asset costs generally have a useful life of three  to five years .
The expected useful lives of assets and the amortization method are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives or the 
amortization method are accounted for prospectively.
Oil and natural gas exploration and appraisal expenditure
Oil and natural gas exploration and appraisal expenditure is accounted for using the principles of the successful efforts method of accounting as described 
below.
Licence and property acquisition costs
Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm 
that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. This review includes confirming that exploration drilling is still under 
way or planned or that it has been determined, or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based on a range of technical 
and commercial considerations, and sufficient progress is being made on establishing development plans and timing. If no future activity is planned, the 
remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written off. Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated period of exploration. Upon internal approval for development and recognition of proved or sanctioned probable reserves of oil and natural 
gas, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Exploration and appraisal expenditure
Geological and geophysical exploration costs are recognized as an expense as incurred. Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially 
capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated. These costs include employee remuneration, 
materials and fuel used, rig costs and payments made to contractors. If potentially commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are not found, the exploration 
well costs are written off. If hydrocarbons are found and, subject to further appraisal activity, are likely to be capable of commercial development, the costs 
continue to be carried as an asset. If it is determined that development will not occur, that is, the efforts are not successful, then the costs are expensed .
Costs directly associated with appraisal activity undertaken to determine the size, characteristics and commercial potential of a reservoir following the 
initial discovery of hydrocarbons, including the costs of appraisal wells where hydrocarbons were not found, are initially capitalized as an intangible asset. 
Upon internal approval for development and recognition of proved or sanctioned probable reserves, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, 
plant and equipment. If development is not approved and no further activity is expected to occur, then the costs are expensed.
The determination of whether potentially economic oil and natural gas reserves have been discovered by an exploration well is usually made within one 
year of well completion, but can take longer, depending on the complexity of the geological structure. Exploration wells that discover potentially economic 
quantities of oil and natural gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure (e.g. an offshore platform or a pipeline) would be required before 
production could begin, and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends on the successful completion of further exploration or 
appraisal work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as such work is under way or firmly planned.
174 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Significant judgement: exploration and appraisal intangible assets
Judgement is required to determine whether it is appropriate to continue to carry costs associated with exploration wells and exploratory-type 
stratigraphic test wells on the balance sheet. This includes costs relating to exploration licences or leasehold property acquisitions. It is not unusual to 
have such costs remaining suspended on the balance sheet for several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and 
natural gas field is performed or while the optimum development plans and timing are established. The costs are carried based on the current regulatory 
and political environment or any known changes to that environment. All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and 
management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery. Where this is 
no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
The carrying amount of capitalized costs are included in Note 8.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment owned by the group is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The initial cost of 
an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into the location and condition necessary 
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if applicable, and, for 
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, directly attributable general or specific finance costs. The 
purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset. 
Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises the cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and overhaul costs. 
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item 
will flow to the group, the expenditure is capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized. Inspection costs associated with major 
maintenance programmes are capitalized and amortized over the period to the next inspection. Overhaul costs for major maintenance programmes, and 
all other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Expenditure on the construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells, 
including service and unsuccessful development or delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated from the 
commencement of production.
Oil and natural gas properties, including certain related pipelines, are depreciated using a unit-of-production method. The cost of producing wells is 
amortized over proved developed reserves. Licence acquisition, common facilities and future decommissioning costs are amortized over total proved 
reserves. The unit-of-production rate for the depreciation of common facilities takes into account expenditures incurred to date, together with estimated 
future capital expenditure expected to be incurred relating to as yet undeveloped reserves expected to be processed through these common facilities. 
Information on the carrying amounts of the group’s oil and natural gas properties, together with the amounts recognized in the income statement as 
depreciation, depletion and amortization is contained in Note 12 and Note 5 respectively.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves determined in accordance with US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, including the 
application of prices using 12-month historical price data in assessing the commerciality of technical volumes, are typically used to calculate depreciation, 
depletion and amortization charges for the group’s oil and gas properties. Therefore, where this approach is adopted, charges are not dependent on 
management forecasts of future oil and gas prices. 
However, for certain oil and natural gas assets, the use of reserves determined in accordance with SEC regulations would result in a charge that is not 
reflective of the pattern in which the future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. In these limited instances other approaches are applied to 
determine the reserves base used to calculate depreciation, depletion and amortization, including the use of management’s best estimate of price 
assumptions as disclosed in Significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of asset carrying values, to determine the commerciality of technical 
proved reserves.
The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset over the expected 
future production.
The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and bp’s process to manage reserves bookings is described in Supplementary information on oil and natural 
gas on page 247 , which is unaudited. Details on bp’s proved reserves and production compliance and governance processes are provided on page 346 . 
The 2023 movements in proved reserves are reflected in the tables showing movements in oil and natural gas reserves by region in Supplementary 
information on oil and natural gas (unaudited) on page 247 .
Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life. The typical useful lives of the  group’s other 
property, plant and equipment on initial recognition are as follows:
Land improvements 15 to 25 years
Buildings 20 to 50 years
Refineries 20 to 30 years
Pipelines 10 to 50 years
Service stations 15 years
Office equipment 3 to 10 years
Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years
The expected useful lives and depreciation method of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful 
lives or the depreciation method are accounted for prospectively. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no 
future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as 
the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included in the income statement in the period in which the item 
is derecognized.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 175

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and equity-accounted entities
The group  assesses assets or groups of assets, called cash-generating units (CGUs), for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or CGU may not be recoverable; for example, changes in the group’s  business plans, plans to dispose rather 
than retain assets, changes in the group’s assumptions about  discount rates, commodity prices, low plant utilization, evidence of physical damage or, for 
oil and gas assets, significant downward revisions of estimated reserves or increases in estimated future development expenditure or decommissioning 
costs. If any such indication of impairment exists, the group  makes an estimate of the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. Individual assets are grouped 
into CGUs for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash 
inflows of other groups of assets. A CGU’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. If it is probable that 
the value of the CGU will be primarily recovered through a disposal transaction, the expected disposal proceeds are considered in determining the 
recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the CGU is considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.
The business segment  plans, which are approved on an annual basis by  senior management, are the primary source of information for the determination 
of value in use. They contain forecasts for oil and natural gas production, power generation, refinery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of 
refined products (e.g. gasoline and lubricants), revenues, costs and capital expenditure. Carbon taxes and costs of emissions allowances are included in 
estimates of future cash flows, where applicable, based on the regulatory environment in each jurisdiction in which the  group operates. As an initial step in 
the preparation of these plans, various assumptions regarding market conditions, such as oil prices, natural gas prices, power prices, refining margins, 
refined product margins and cost inflation rates are set by senior management. These assumptions take account of existing prices, global supply-demand 
equilibrium for oil and natural gas, other macroeconomic factors and historical trends and variability. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group to the extent that they are not already reflected in the discount rate and are discounted to their 
present value typically using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Fair value less costs of disposal is the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and does not 
reflect the effects of factors that may be specific to the group and not applicable to entities in general. Fair value may be determined by reference to 
agreed or expected sales proceeds, recent market transactions for similar assets or using discounted cash flow analyses. Where discounted cash flow 
analyses are used to calculate fair value less costs of disposal, estimates are made about the assumptions market participants would use when pricing 
the asset, CGU or group of CGUs containing goodwill and the test is performed on a post-tax basis.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or 
may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there 
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s or CGU's recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. If that is 
the case, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the lower of its recoverable amount and the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset or CGU in prior years. Impairment reversals are recognized in profit 
or loss. After a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s or CGU's revised carrying amount, less any residual 
value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the recoverable amount of the group of 
CGUs to which the goodwill relates should be assessed. In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the group of CGUs to 
which goodwill has been allocated is compared with its recoverable amount. Where the recoverable amount of the group of CGUs is less than the carrying 
amount (including goodwill), an impairment loss is recognized. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
The group  assesses investments in equity-accounted entities for impairment whenever there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired, after 
recognizing its share of any losses of the equity-accounted entity itself. If any such objective evidence of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the 
investment is compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. If the carrying amount 
exceeds the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
176 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of asset carrying values
Determination as to whether, and by how much, an asset, CGU, or group of CGUs containing goodwill is impaired involves management estimates on 
highly uncertain matters such as the effects of inflation and deflation on operating expenses, discount rates, capital expenditure, carbon pricing (where 
applicable), production profiles, reserves and resources, and future commodity prices, including the outlook for global or regional market supply-and-
demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas, power and refined products. Judgement is required when determining the appropriate grouping of assets 
into a CGU or the appropriate grouping of CGUs for impairment testing purposes. For example, individual oil and gas properties may form separate CGUs 
whilst certain oil and gas properties with shared infrastructure may be grouped together to form a single CGU. Alternative groupings of assets or CGUs 
may result in a different outcome from impairment testing. See Note 14 for details on how these groupings have been determined in relation to the 
impairment testing of goodwill.
As described above, the recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value less costs of 
disposal may be determined based on expected sales proceeds or similar recent market transaction data.
Details of impairment charges and reversals recognized in the income statement are provided in Note 4 and details on the carrying amounts of assets 
are shown in Note 12, Note 14 and Note 15.
The estimates for assumptions made in impairment tests in 2023 relating to discount rates and oil and gas properties are discussed below. Changes in 
the economic environment including as a result of the energy transition or other facts and circumstances may necessitate revisions to these 
assumptions and could result in a material change to the carrying values of the group's assets within the next financial year.
Discount rates
For discounted cash flow calculations, future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the CGU. Value-in-use calculations are typically discounted 
using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the cost of funding the group derived from an established model, adjusted to a pre-tax basis and incorporating a 
market participant capital structure and country risk premiums. Fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow calculations use a post-tax 
discount rate.
The discount rates applied in impairment tests are reassessed each year and, in 2023, the post-tax discount rate was 8% (2022 7%) other than for 
renewable power assets. Where the CGU is located in a country that was judged to be higher risk, an additional premium of 1% to 4% was reflected in the 
post-tax discount rate (2022 1% to 2%). The judgement of classifying a country as higher risk and the applicable premium takes into account various 
economic and geopolitical factors. The pre-tax discount rate, other than for renewable power assets, typically ranged from 9% to 20%  (2022 7% to 18% ) 
depending on the risk premium and applicable tax rate in the geographic location of the CGU. For renewable power assets tested on a value-in-use basis 
in 2023 (including those in equity accounted entities), where the risk profile of expected cash flows supports a lower rate, tests were performed using a 
post-tax WACC-based discount rate of 6.5% . For assets tested in 2022, the tests  were performed on a fair value less costs of disposal basis using a 
post-tax cost of equity-based discount rate of 6%.
Oil and natural gas properties
For oil and natural gas properties in the oil production & operations and gas & low carbon energy segments, expected future cash flows are estimated 
using management’s best estimate of future oil and natural gas prices, production and reserves and certain resources volumes. Forecast cash flows 
include the impact of all approved emission reduction projects. The estimated future level of production in all impairment tests is based on assumptions 
about future commodity prices, production and development costs, field decline rates, current fiscal regimes and other factors.
In 2023, the group identified oil and gas properties in these segments with carrying amounts totalling  $18,374 million  (2022 $11,652 million ) where the 
headroom, based on the most recent impairment test performed in the year on those assets, was less than or equal to 20%  of the carrying value. A 
change in the discount rate, reserves, resources or the oil and gas price assumptions in the next financial year may result in a recoverable amount of one 
or more of these assets above or below the current carrying amount and therefore there is a risk of impairment reversals or charges in that period. 
Management considers that reasonably possible changes in the discount rate or forecast revenue, arising from a change in oil and natural gas prices 
and/or production could result in a material change in their carrying amounts within the next financial year, see Sensitivity analyses, below.
The recoverability of intangible exploration and appraisal expenditure is covered under Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development 
expenditure above.
Oil and natural gas prices
The price assumptions used for value-in-use impairment testing are based on those used for investment appraisal. bp’s carbon emissions cost 
assumptions and their interrelationship with oil and gas prices are described in 'Judgements and estimates made in assessing the impact of climate 
change and the transition to a lower carbon economy' on page 170. The investment appraisal price assumptions are recommended by the senior vice 
president economic & energy insights after considering a range of external price sets, and supply and demand profiles associated with various energy 
transition scenarios. They are reviewed and approved by management. As a result of the current uncertainty over the pace of transition to lower-carbon 
supply and demand and the social, political and environmental actions that will be taken to meet the goals of the Paris climate change agreement, the 
scenarios considered include those where those goals are met as well as those where they are not met. 
During the year, bp's price assumptions applied in value-in-use impairment testing (in real 2022 terms) for the near term Brent oil assumption was held 
constant at $70 per barrel to reflect near term supply constraints before declining after 2030 to $50 per barrel by 2050 continuing to reflect the 
assumption that as the energy system decarbonizes, falling oil demand will cause oil prices to decline. The price assumptions for Henry Hub gas up to 
2050 were held constant at $4.00  per mmBtu reflecting an assumption that declining domestic demand in the US is offset by higher LNG exports. These 
price assumptions are derived from the central case investment appraisal assumptions, adjusted where applicable to reflect short-term market 
conditions (see page 30). A summary of the group’s revised price assumptions for Brent oil and Henry Hub gas, applied in 2023 and 2022, in real 2022 
terms, is provided below. The assumptions represent management’s best estimate of future prices at the balance sheet date, which sit within the range 
of external scenarios considered as appropriate for the purpose. They are considered by bp to be in line with a range of transition paths consistent with 
the temperature goal of the Paris climate change agreement, of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-
industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. However, they do not correspond to any 
specific Paris-consistent scenario. An inflation rate of 2% (2022 2%) is applied to determine the price assumptions in nominal terms.
The majority of bp’s reserves and resources that support the carrying value of the group’s existing oil and gas properties are expected to be produced 
over the next 12 years. 
The recoverability of deferred tax assets is also affected by the group’s oil and natural gas price assumptions as these could impact the estimate of 
future taxable profits. See Note 9 for further information.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 177

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
2023 price assumptions 2024 2025 2030 2040 2050
Brent oil ($/bbl) 70 70 70 63 50
Henry Hub gas ($/mmBtu) 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00
2022 price assumptions 2023 2025 2030 2040 2050
Brent oil ($/bbl) 78 71 71 59 46
Henry Hub gas ($/mmBtu) 4.08 4.08 4.08 3.57 3.57
Global oil production increased by 2.2% in 2023. Strong US tight oil supply and non-OPEC+ supply more than offset OPEC+ pledged additional output 
reductions. Global oil demand continued its recovery, increasing by 2.4% in 2023. Chinese demand growth was unexpectedly strong making up 75% of 
total oil demand growth, with the rest coming from other non-OECD countries. Brent dropped by nearly $20 per barrel in 2023 as oil markets recovered 
from the shocks in 2022 and supply/demand was balanced. bp’s long term view is for a more stable market in 2024 as the price responsiveness of shale 
activity, OPEC+ discipline and ample spare capacity limits the scope for large movements, even with the political tensions in the Middle East. bp's long-
term assumption for oil prices is lower than the 2023 price average, based on the judgement that, in the long term, oil demand is likely to fall so that the 
price levels needed to encourage sufficient investment to meet declining global oil demand is also lower.
US gas prices in 2023 decreased around 60% compared to 2022, to $2.5 per mmbtu. Prices fell as gas production growth outpaced demand. Milder than 
normal winter weather and an extended outage at Freeport LNG left US gas storage stocks well above historic average levels at the end of winter 
2022/2023. Henry Hub prices fell during the summer which incentivized coal-to-gas switching in the power sector, and hot weather in the third-quarter 
helped the market avoid storage containment issues. Meanwhile gas production continued to grow, reaching record levels by the end of 2023 despite a 
20% decrease in gas rigs over the first half of the year. Growth was supported by strong associated gas production as well as pipeline de-bottlenecking. 
Finally, mild weather in the fourth-quarter further loosened balances and storage stocks exited the year 13% above five-year average levels. The level of 
US gas prices in 2023 is below bp’s long term price assumption based on the judgment of the price level required to incentivize new production.
Oil and natural gas reserves
In addition to oil and natural gas prices, significant technical and commercial assessments are required to determine the group’s estimated oil and 
natural gas reserves. Reserves estimates are regularly reviewed and updated. Factors such as the availability of geological and engineering data, 
reservoir performance data, acquisition and divestment activity and drilling of new wells all impact on the determination of the group’s estimates of its oil 
and natural gas reserves. bp bases its reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and commercial 
assessments based on conventional industry practice and regulatory requirements. 
Reserves assumptions for value-in-use tests reflect the reserves and resources that management currently intend to develop. The recoverable amount of 
oil and gas properties is determined using a combination of inputs including reserves, resources and production volumes. Risk factors may be applied to 
reserves and resources which do not meet the criteria to be treated as proved or probable.
Sensitivity analyses
Management considers discount rates, oil and natural gas prices and production to be the key sources of estimation uncertainty in determining the 
recoverable amount of upstream oil and gas assets. The sensitivity analyses below, in addition to covering the key sources of estimation uncertainty, also 
indicate how the energy transition, potential future carbon emissions costs for operational GHG emissions and/or reduced demand for oil and gas may 
further impact forecast revenue cash inflows to a greater extent than currently anticipated in the group’s value-in-use estimates for oil and gas CGUs, if 
carbon emissions costs were to be implemented as a deduction against revenue cash flows. The analyses therefore represent a net revenue sensitivity. 
A change in net revenue from upstream oil and gas properties can arise either due to changes in oil and natural gas prices, carbon emissions costs/
carbon prices, changes in oil and natural gas production, or a combination of these.
Management tested the impact of changes in net revenue cash flows in value-in-use impairment testing under the following sensitivity analyses: an 
increase in net revenues of 8% in all years up to 2040, and 25% in all remaining years to 2050; and a decrease in net revenues of 20% in all years up to 
2030, 35% in all subsequent years to 2040 and 50% in all remaining years to 2050.
Net revenue reductions of this magnitude in isolation could indicatively lead to a reduction in the carrying amount of bp’s currently held upstream oil and 
gas properties in the range of $16-17 billion which is approximately 23-24%  of the net book value of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 
2023. If this net revenue reduction was due to reductions in prices in isolation, it reflects an indicative decrease in the carrying amount of using price 
assumptions for Brent oil trending broadly towards the bottom of the range of prices associated with the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) 'family' of scenarios considered to be consistent with limiting global average temperature to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. 
This ‘family’ of scenarios is also used in bp's TCFD scenario analysis (see page 55).
Net revenue increases of this magnitude in isolation could indicatively lead to an increase in the carrying amount of bp’s currently held upstream oil and 
gas properties in the range of $2-3 billion which is approximately 3-4% of the net book value of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2023. 
This potential increase in the carrying amount would arise due to reversals of previously recognized impairments and represents approximately one third 
of the total impairment reversal capacity available at 31 December 2023. If this net revenue increase was due to increases in prices in isolation, it reflects 
an indicative increase in the carrying amount of using price assumptions for Brent oil trending broadly towards the top end until 2040, and then towards 
the mean average at 2050, of the range of prices associated with the WBCSD 'family' of scenarios considered to be consistent with limiting global 
average temperature to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. This ‘family’ of scenarios is also used in bp's TCFD scenario analysis.
178 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
These sensitivity analyses do not, however, represent management’s best estimate of any impairment charges or reversals that might be recognized as 
they do not fully incorporate consequential changes that may arise, such as changes in costs and business plans and phasing of development. For 
example, costs across the industry are more likely to decrease as oil and natural gas prices fall. The analyses also assume the impact of increases in 
carbon price on operational GHG emissions are fully absorbed as a decrease in net revenue (and vice versa) rather than reflecting how carbon prices or 
other carbon emissions costs may ultimately be incorporated by the market. The above sensitivity analyses therefore do not reflect a linear relationship 
between net revenue and value that can be extrapolated. The interdependency of these inputs and factors plus the diverse characteristics of the group's 
upstream oil and gas properties limits the practicability of estimating the probability or extent to which the overall recoverable amount is impacted by 
changes to the price assumptions or production volumes.
Management also tested the impact of a one percentage point change in the discount rate used for value-in-use impairment testing of upstream oil and 
gas properties. This level of change reflects past experience of a reasonable change in rate that could arise within the next financial year. If the discount 
rate was one percentage point higher across all tests performed, the net impairment loss recognized in 2023 would have been approximately $0.8 billion  
higher. If the discount rate was one percentage point lower, the net impairment loss recognized would have been approximately $0.9 billion  lower.
Goodwill
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, bp is required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in business 
combinations. The group carries goodwill of $12.5 billion  on its balance sheet (2022 $12.0 billion ), principally relating to the Atlantic Richfield, Burmah 
Castrol, Devon Energy and Reliance transactions. Of this, $7.0 billion  relates to goodwill in the oil production & operations and gas & low carbon energy 
segments (2022 $7.2 billion ), for which oil and gas price and production assumptions are key sources of estimation uncertainty. Sensitivities and 
additional information relating to impairment testing of goodwill in these segments are provided in Note 14.
Inventories
Inventories, other than inventories held for short-term trading purposes, are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is typically determined 
by the first-in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, transportation and manufacturing expenses. Net realizable value 
is determined by reference to prices existing at the balance sheet date, adjusted where the sale of inventories after the reporting period gives evidence 
about their net realizable value at the end of the period.
Inventories held for short-term trading purposes are stated at fair value less costs to sell and any changes in fair value are recognized in the income 
statement.
Supplies are valued at the lower of cost on a weighted-average basis and net realizable value.
Leases
Agreements that convey the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration are accounted for as leases. 
The right to control is conveyed if  bp has both the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from, and the right to direct the use of, the 
identified asset throughout the period of use. An asset is identified if it is explicitly or implicitly specified by the agreement and any substitution rights held 
by the lessor over the asset are not considered substantive.  
Agreements that convey the right to control the use of an intangible asset including rights to explore for or use hydrocarbons are not accounted for as 
leases. See material accounting policy information: intangible assets.
A lease liability is recognized on the balance sheet on the lease commencement date at the present value of future lease payments over the lease term. 
The discount rate applied is the rate implicit in the lease if readily determinable, otherwise an incremental borrowing rate is used. For the majority of the 
leases in the group, there is not sufficient information available to readily determine the rate implicit in the lease, and therefore the incremental borrowing 
rate is used . The incremental borrowing rate is determined based on factors such as the  group’s cost of borrowing, lessee legal entity credit risk, currency 
and lease term. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of a lease together with any periods covered by an extension option that  bp is reasonably 
certain to exercise, or periods covered by a termination option that bp is reasonably certain not to exercise. The future lease payments included in the 
present value calculation are any fixed payments, payments that vary depending on an index or rate, payments due for the reasonably certain exercise of 
options and expected residual value guarantee payments. Repayments of principal are presented as financing cash flows and payments of interest are 
presented as operating cash flows.
Payments that vary based on factors other than an index or a rate such as usage, sales volumes or revenues are not included in the present value 
calculation and are recognized in the income statement and presented as operating cash flows. The lease liability is recognized on an amortized cost basis 
with interest expense recognized in the income statement over the lease term, except for where capitalized as exploration, appraisal or development 
expenditure.
The right-of-use asset is recognized on the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at a value equivalent to the initial measurement of the lease 
liability adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives, initial direct costs and any restoration obligations. The right-of-use asset is depreciated typically 
on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The depreciation charge is recognized in the income statement except for where capitalized as exploration, 
appraisal or development expenditure. Right-of-use assets are assessed for impairment in line with the accounting policy for impairment of property, plant 
and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.  
Agreements may include both lease and non-lease components. Payments for lease and non-lease components are allocated on a relative stand-alone 
selling price basis except for leases of retail service stations where the  group has elected not to separate non-lease payments from the calculation of the 
lease liability and right-of-use asset.
If the lease term at commencement of the agreement is less than 12 months, a lease liability and right-of-use asset are not recognized, and a lease 
expense is recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 179

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
If a significant event or change in circumstances, within the control of  bp, arises that affects the reasonably certain lease term or there are changes to the 
lease payments, the present value of the lease liability is remeasured using the revised term and payments, with the right-of-use asset adjusted by an 
equivalent amount. 
Modifications to a lease agreement beyond the original terms and conditions are accounted for as a re-measurement of the lease liability with a 
corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Any gain or loss on modification is recognized in the income statement. Modifications that increase 
the scope of the lease at a price commensurate with the stand-alone selling price are accounted for as a separate new lease.
The group recognizes the full lease liability, rather than its working interest share, for leases entered into on behalf of a joint operation if the group has the 
primary responsibility for making the lease payments. This may be the case if for example  bp, as operator of the joint operation, is the sole signatory to the 
lease agreement. In such cases, bp’s working interest share of the right-of-use asset is recognized if it is jointly controlled by the group and the other joint 
operators, and a receivable is recognized for the share of the asset transferred to the other joint operators. If bp is a non-operator, a payable to the operator 
is recognized if they have the primary responsibility for making the lease payments and bp has joint control over the right-of-use asset, otherwise no 
balances are recognized.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price. In the case of financial assets not measured at fair value through 
profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs are also included. The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as 
set out below.  The group derecognizes financial assets when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the rights to receive cash flows have been 
transferred to a third party and either substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset have been transferred, or substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset have neither been retained nor transferred but control of the asset has been transferred. This includes the derecognition of receivables for 
which discounting arrangements are entered into.
The group classifies its financial asset debt instruments as measured at amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value 
through profit or loss. The classification depends on the business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of 
the financial asset.
Financial assets measured at amortized cost
Financial assets are classified as measured at amortized cost when they are held in a business model the objective of which is to collect contractual cash 
flows and the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective 
interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the assets are derecognized or impaired 
and when interest income is recognized using the effective interest method. This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets are classified as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income when they are held in a business model the objective of 
which is both to collect contractual cash flows and sell the financial assets, and the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and 
interest. 
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets are classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss when the asset does not meet the criteria to be measured at amortized cost 
or fair value through other comprehensive income. Such assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income 
statement. Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are included in this category.
Investments in equity instruments
Investments in equity instruments are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss unless an election is made on an instrument-by-
instrument basis to recognize fair value gains and losses in other comprehensive income.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. The treatment of gains and losses 
arising from revaluation is described below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Cash equivalents
Cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and are short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash, are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and generally have a maturity of three months or less from the 
date of acquisition. Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost or, in the case of certain money market funds, fair value 
through profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets measured at amortized cost
The group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses associated with financial assets measured at amortized cost at each balance 
sheet date. Expected credit losses are measured based on the maximum contractual period over which the  group is exposed to credit risk. As lifetime 
expected credit losses are recognized for trade receivables and the tenor of substantially all other in-scope financial assets is less than 12 months there is 
no significant difference between the measurement of 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses for the  group. The measurement of expected credit 
losses is a function of the probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default. The expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of the future cash flows the  group expects to receive discounted at the financial asset’s original effective 
interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is adjusted, with the amount of the impairment gain or loss recognized in the income statement.
A financial asset or group of financial assets classified as measured at amortized cost is considered to be credit-impaired if there is reasonable and 
supportable evidence that one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset (or group of 
financial assets) have occurred. Financial assets are written off where the  group has no reasonable expectation of recovering amounts due.
Equity instruments
Instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangements. Instruments that 
cannot be settled in the group’s own equity instruments and that include no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange 
financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity that are potentially unfavourable are classified as equity. Equity instruments issued by the group 
are recognized at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable issue costs.
180 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are recognized when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The group derecognizes financial 
liabilities when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their 
classification, as follows:
Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities that meet the definition of held for trading are classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities are carried on 
the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement. Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging 
instruments, are included in this category.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. The treatment of gains and losses 
arising from revaluation is described below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this 
is typically equivalent to the fair value of the proceeds received, net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortized cost is 
calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or 
cancellation of liabilities are recognized in interest and other income and finance costs respectively.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables and finance debt.
Significant judgement: supplier financing arrangements
The group’s trade payables include some supplier arrangements that utilize letter of credit facilities. Judgement is required to assess the payables 
subject to these arrangements to determine whether they should continue to be classified as trade payables and give rise to operating cash flows or 
finance debt and financing cash flows. The criteria used in making this assessment include the payment terms for the amount due relative to terms 
commonly seen in the markets in which bp operates and whether the arrangements significantly change the nature of the liability. Liabilities subject to 
these arrangements with payment terms of up to approximately 60 days are generally considered to be trade payables and give rise to operating cash 
flows. At 31 December 2023, trade payables subject to these arrangements and this significant judgement included $10 billion  (2022 $9.5 billion ) payable 
to the providers of the letters of credit. See Note 29 - Liquidity risk for further information.
Financial guarantees
The group issues financial guarantee contracts to make specified payments to reimburse holders for losses incurred if certain associates, joint ventures or 
third-party entities fail to make payments when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument such as a loan.  The liability for a 
financial guarantee contract is initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of the contract’s estimated expected credit loss 
and the amount initially recognized less, where appropriate, cumulative amortization.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and 
commodity prices, as well as for trading purposes. These derivative financial instruments are recognized initially at fair value on the date on which a 
derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item (for example, oil, oil products, gas or power) that can be settled net in cash, with the exception of contracts 
that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the  group’s expected 
purchase, sale or usage requirements, are accounted for as financial instruments. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that 
are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in the income statement. 
If, at inception of a contract, the valuation cannot be supported by observable market data, any gain or loss determined by the valuation methodology is 
not recognized in the income statement but is deferred on the balance sheet and is commonly known as a ‘day-one gain or loss’. This deferred gain or loss 
is recognized in the income statement over the life of the contract until substantially all the remaining contractual cash flows can be valued using 
observable market data at which point any remaining deferred gain or loss is recognized in the income statement. Changes in valuation subsequent to the 
initial valuation at inception of a contract are recognized immediately in the income statement.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
•Fair value hedges when hedging exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability.
•Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or 
liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at inception, together with the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the 
hedge. The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, the 
existence at inception of an economic relationship and subsequent measurement of the hedging instrument's effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to 
changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, the hedge ratio and sources of hedge ineffectiveness. Hedges 
meeting the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows:Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 181

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Fair value hedges
The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or loss. The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being 
hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognized in profit or loss, where it offsets.  The group applies fair value 
hedge accounting when hedging interest rate risk and certain currency risks on fixed rate finance debt.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued only when the hedging relationship or a part thereof ceases to meet the qualifying criteria. This includes when 
the risk management objective changes or when the hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised. The accumulated adjustment to the carrying 
amount of a hedged item at such time is then amortized prospectively to profit or loss as finance interest expense over the hedged item's remaining period 
to maturity.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the gain or loss on a cash flow hedging instrument is reported in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is 
recognized in profit or loss. Amounts reported in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged transaction 
affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast transaction that results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, such as a forecast 
foreign currency transaction for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, the amounts recognized within other comprehensive income are 
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. Where the hedged item is an equity investment, the amounts recognized in 
other comprehensive income remain in the separate component of equity until the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss or when accounting under the 
equity method is discontinued. Where the hedged item is recognized directly in profit or loss, the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to production and manufacturing expenses or sales and other operating revenues as appropriate.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued only when the hedging relationship or a part thereof ceases to meet the qualifying criteria. This includes when 
the designated hedged forecast transaction or part thereof is no longer considered to be highly probable to occur, or when the hedging instrument is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover. When cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued amounts previously recognized within other 
comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to the initial carrying 
amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognized within other 
comprehensive income will be immediately reclassified to profit or loss.
Costs of hedging
The foreign currency basis spread of cross-currency interest rate swaps are excluded from hedge designations and accounted for as costs of hedging. 
Changes in fair value of the foreign currency basis spread are recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent that they relate to the hedged item.  
For time-period related hedged items, the amount recognized in other comprehensive income is amortized to profit or loss on a straight line basis over the 
term of the hedging relationship. 
Fair value measurement
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.  The group 
categorizes assets and liabilities measured at fair value into one of three levels depending on the ability to observe inputs employed in their measurement. 
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, 
other than quoted prices included within level 1 for the asset or liability. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability reflecting significant 
modifications to observable related market data or  bp’s assumptions about pricing by market participants.
Significant estimate and judgement: derivative financial instruments
In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using internal models due to the absence of quoted prices or other observable, market-
corroborated data. This primarily applies to the group’s longer-term derivative contracts. The majority of these contracts are valued using models with 
inputs that include price curves for each of the different products that are built up from available active market pricing data (including volatility and 
correlation) and modelled using the maximum available external information. Additionally, where limited data exists for certain products, prices are 
determined using historical and long-term pricing relationships. The use of alternative assumptions or valuation methodologies may result in significantly 
different values for these derivatives. A reasonably possible change in the price assumptions used in the models relating to index price would not have a 
material impact on net assets and the Group income statement primarily as a result of offsetting movements between derivative assets and liabilities. 
In some cases, judgement is required to determine whether contracts to buy or sell commodities meet the definition of a derivative or to determine 
appropriate presentation and classification of transactions in certain cases. In particular, contracts to buy and sell LNG are not considered to meet the 
definition as they are not considered capable of being net settled due to a lack of liquidity in the LNG market and the inability or lack of history of net 
settlement and are accounted for on an accruals basis, rather than as a derivative. Under IFRS, bp fair values the derivative financial instruments used to 
risk-manage the LNG contracts themselves, resulting in a measurement mismatch.
For more information, including the carrying amounts of level 3 derivatives, see Note 30.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are presented gross in the balance sheet unless both of the following criteria are met:  the group currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts; and  the group intends to either settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. A right of set off is  the group’s legal right to settle an amount payable to a creditor by applying against it an amount receivable from the 
same counterparty. The relevant legal jurisdiction and laws applicable to the relationships between the parties are considered when assessing whether a 
current legally enforceable right to set off exists.
182 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Provisions and contingencies
Provisions are recognized when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Where appropriate, the future cash flow estimates are adjusted to reflect risks specific to the liability.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax risk-free rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is 
recognized within finance costs. Provisions are discounted using a nominal discount rate of 4% (2022 3.5% ) . 
Provisions are split between amounts expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date (current) and amounts expected to be settled 
later (non-current).
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the  group, or present 
obligations where it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient 
reliability. Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements but are disclosed, if material, unless the possibility of an outflow 
of economic resources is considered remote.
Decommissioning
Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group  has an obligation to plug and abandon a well, dismantle and remove a facility or an 
item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable estimate of that liability can be made. Where an obligation exists for a new 
facility or item of plant, such as oil and natural gas production or transportation facilities, this liability will be recognized on construction or installation. 
Similarly, where an obligation exists for a well, this liability is recognized when it is drilled. An obligation for decommissioning may also crystallize during 
the period of operation of a well, facility or item of plant through a change in legislation or through a decision to terminate operations; an obligation may 
also arise in cases where an asset has been sold but the subsequent owner is no longer able to fulfil its decommissioning obligations, for example due to 
bankruptcy. The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and 
requirements. The provision for the costs of decommissioning wells, production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic lives is estimated 
using existing technology, at future prices, depending on the expected timing of the activity, and discounted using a nominal discount rate. 
An amount equivalent to the decommissioning provision is recognized as part of the corresponding intangible asset (in the case of an exploration or 
appraisal well) or property, plant and equipment. The decommissioning portion of the property, plant and equipment is subsequently depreciated at the 
same rate as the rest of the asset. Other than the unwinding of discount on or utilization of the provision, any change in the present value of the estimated 
expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the corresponding asset where that asset is generating or is expected to generate future 
economic benefits.
Environmental expenditures and liabilities
Environmental expenditures that are required in order for the group  to obtain future economic benefits from its assets are capitalized as part of those 
assets. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations that do not contribute to future earnings are expensed.
Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a clean-up is probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated. Generally, the timing of 
recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation. Provisions for environmental liabilities have been 
estimated using existing technology, at future prices and discounted using a nominal discount rate. 
Emissions 
Liabilities for emissions are recognized when the cumulative volumes of gases emitted by the group  at the end of the reporting period exceed the 
allowances granted free of charge held for own use or a set baseline for emissions. The provision is measured at the best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. It is based on the excess of actual emissions over the free allowances held or set 
baseline in tonnes (or other appropriate quantity) and is valued at the actual cost of any allowances that have been purchased and held for own use on a 
first-in-first-out (FIFO) basis, and, if insufficient allowances are held, for the remaining requirement on the basis of the spot market price of allowances at 
the balance sheet date. The majority of these provisions are typically settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date however certain schemes may 
have longer compliance periods. The cost of allowances purchased to cover a shortfall is recognized separately on the balance sheet as an intangible 
asset unless the emission allowances acquired or generated by the group  are risk-managed by the trading and shipping function, then they are recognized 
on the balance sheet as inventory.
Restructuring provisions
Restructuring provisions are recognized where a detailed formal plan exists, and a valid expectation of risk of redundancy has been made to those affected 
but where the specific outcomes remain uncertain. Where formal redundancy offers have been made, the obligations for those amounts are reported as 
payables and, if not, as provisions if unpaid at the year-end.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 183

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Significant judgements and estimates: provisions
The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic lives. 
The largest decommissioning obligations facing bp relate to the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal and disposal of oil and natural gas 
platforms and pipelines around the world. Most of these decommissioning events are many years in the future and the precise requirements that will 
have to be met when the removal event occurs are uncertain. Decommissioning technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are political, 
environmental, safety and public expectations. The timing and amounts of future cash flows are subject to significant uncertainty and estimation is 
required in determining the amounts of provisions to be recognized. Any changes in the expected future costs are reflected in both the provision and, 
where still recognized, the asset. 
If oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines are sold to third parties, judgement is required to assess whether the new owner will be unable to 
meet their decommissioning obligations, whether bp would then be responsible for decommissioning, and if so the extent of that responsibility. This 
typically requires assessment of the local legal requirements and the financial standing of the owner. If the standing deteriorates significantly, for 
example, bankruptcy of the owner, a provision may be required. The group has assessed that $0.6 billion  of decommissioning provisions should be 
recognized as at 31 December 2023 (2022 $0.8 billion ) for assets previously sold to third parties where the sale transferred the decommissioning 
obligation to the new owner. See Note 33 for further information.
Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream refineries are generally not recognized, as the potential obligations cannot be measured, given 
their indeterminate settlement dates. Obligations may arise if refineries cease manufacturing operations and any such obligations would be recognized in 
the period when sufficient information becomes available to determine potential settlement dates. See Note 33 for further information.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream refineries for any changes in facts and circumstances including those relating to the energy 
transition, that might require the recognition of a decommissioning provision. Portfolio strength and flexibility are such that the point of cessation of 
manufacturing at the group’s operating refineries is not yet expected within a determinate time period, as existing property plant and equipment is 
expected to be renewed or replaced.
The provision for environmental liabilities is estimated based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans 
for remediation. Actual costs and cash outflows can differ from current estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public expectations, 
prices, discovery and analysis of site conditions and changes in clean-up technology. 
The timing and amount of future expenditures relating to decommissioning and environmental liabilities are reviewed annually. The interest rate used in 
discounting the cash flows is reviewed quarterly. The nominal interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligations at the end of 2023 was 4% 
(2022 3.5% ), which was based on long-dated US government bonds. The weighted average period over which decommissioning and environmental costs 
are generally expected to be incurred is estimated to be approximately 17 years  (2022 17 years ) and 6 years  (2022 6 years ) respectively. Costs at future 
prices are typically determined by applying an inflation rate of 1.5%  (2022 1.5% ) to decommissioning costs and 2% (2022 2%) for all other provisions. A 
lower rate is typically applied to decommissioning as certain costs are expected to remain fixed at current or past prices.
The estimated phasing of undiscounted cash flows in real terms for upstream decommissioning is approximately $5.5 billion  (2022 $5.6 billion ) within 
the next 10 years, $5.8 billion  (2022 $5.3 billion ) in 10 to 20 years and the remainder of approximately $6.6 billion  (2022 $6.0 billion ) after 20 years. The 
timing and amount of decommissioning cash flows are inherently uncertain and therefore the phasing is management’s current best estimate but may 
not be what will ultimately occur.
Further information about the group’s provisions is provided in Note 23. Changes in assumptions in relation to the group's provisions could result in a 
material change in their carrying amounts within the next financial year. A 1.0 percentage point increase in the nominal discount rate applied could 
decrease the group’s provision balances by approximately $1.6 billion  (2022 $1.8 billion ). The pre-tax impact on the group income statement would be a 
credit of approximately $0.4 billion  (2022 $0.5 billion ). This level of change reflects past experience of a reasonable change in rate that could arise within 
the next financial year.
The discounting impact on the group's decommissioning provisions for oil and gas properties in the oil productions & operations and gas & low carbon 
energy segments of a two-year change in the timing of expected future decommissioning expenditures is approximately $0.6 billion  (2022 $0.5 billion  ). 
Management currently does not consider a change of greater than two years to be reasonably possible in the next financial year and therefore the timing 
of upstream decommissioning expenditure is not a key source of estimation uncertainty.
If all expected future decommissioning expenditures were 10% higher, then these decommissioning provisions would increase by approximately 
$1.1 billion  (2022 $1.2 billion ) and a pre-tax charge of approximately $0.2 billion  (2022 $0.3 billion ) would be recognized. A one percentage point increase 
in the inflation rate applied to upstream decommissioning costs to determine the nominal cash flows could increase the decommissioning provision by 
approximately $1.9 billion  (2022 $2.0 billion ) with a pre-tax charge of approximately $0.5 billion  (2022 $0.5 billion ).
As described in Note 33, the group is subject to claims and actions for which no provisions have been recognized. The facts and circumstances relating 
to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether a provision relating to a specific litigation should be recognized or revised. Accordingly, 
significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. 
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are 
rendered by employees of the  group. Deferred bonus arrangements that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are valued 
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award vests. The 
material accounting policy information for pensions and other post-retirement benefits are described below.
184 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The cost of providing benefits under the group’s defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which 
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation. Past service costs, resulting from either a plan amendment or a curtailment (a reduction in future obligations as a result 
of a material reduction in the plan membership), are recognized immediately when the company becomes committed to a change.
Net interest expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits, which is recognized in the income statement, represents the net change in 
present value of plan obligations and the value of plan assets resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the 
present value of the benefit obligation at the start of the year, and to the fair value of plan assets at the start of the year, taking into account expected 
changes in the obligation or plan assets during the year. 
Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability and asset, comprising actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest described above) are recognized within other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently 
reclassified to profit and loss.
The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit recognized on the balance sheet for each plan comprises the difference between the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds) and the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations 
are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price. Defined benefit 
pension plan surpluses are only recognized to the extent they are recoverable, either by way of a refund from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Significant estimate: pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Accounting for defined benefit pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves making significant estimates when measuring the group's pension 
plan surpluses and deficits. These estimates require assumptions to be made about many uncertainties.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are reviewed by management at the end of each year. These assumptions are used to 
determine the projected benefit obligation at the year end and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the group's balance sheet and pension and 
other post-retirement benefit expense for the following year.
The assumptions that are the most significant to the amounts reported are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality levels. Assumptions about these 
variables are based on the environment in each country. The assumptions used vary from year to year, with resultant effects on future net income and 
net assets. Changes to some of these assumptions, in particular the discount rate and inflation rate, could result in material changes to the carrying 
amounts of the group's pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations within the next financial year, in particular for the UK, US and Eurozone 
plans. Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome will also affect future net income and net assets.
The values ascribed to these assumptions and a sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in the assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation 
used are provided in Note 24.
Income taxes
Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
Income tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, in which case the related tax is recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it is determined 
in accordance with the rules established by the applicable taxation authorities. It therefore excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other periods as well as items that are never taxable or deductible. The  group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences except:
•Where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill.
•Where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, at the time of 
the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss and, at the time of the transaction, does not give rise to equal taxable and 
deductible temporary differences.
•In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint arrangements, where the  
group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 185

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilized, except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss and, 
at the time of the transaction, does not give rise to equal taxable and deductive temporary differences. 
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint arrangements, deferred tax 
assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary differences can be utilized.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable or increased to 
the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different 
taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously.
Where tax treatments are uncertain, if it is considered probable that a taxation authority will accept the group's proposed tax treatment, income taxes are 
recognized consistent with the group's income tax filings. If it is not considered probable, the uncertainty is reflected within the carrying amount of the 
applicable tax asset or liability using either the most likely amount or an expected value, depending on which method better predicts the resolution of the 
uncertainty.
The computation of the group’s income tax expense and liability involves the interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions 
throughout the  world. The resolution of tax positions taken by the group , through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can take 
several years to complete and in some cases it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome. Therefore, judgement is required to determine whether 
provisions for income taxes are required and, if so, estimation is required of the amounts that could be payable.
In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses and tax credits in certain taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable profit. 
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses or 
tax credits can be utilized. Management judgement is exercised in assessing whether this is the case and estimates are required to be made of the 
amount of future taxable profits that will be available. Such judgements are inherently impacted by estimates affecting future taxable profits such as oil 
and natural gas prices and decommissioning expenditure, see 'Significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of asset carrying values and 
provisions'.
In May 2023,  the IASB issued International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules - Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes to clarify the application of IAS 12 
to tax legislation enacted or substantively enacted to implement Pillar Two of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base 
Erosion and Profit Shifting project, which aims to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalisation of the economy. The amendments include a 
mandatory temporary exception from accounting for deferred tax on such tax law. In July 2023, the UK government enacted legislation to implement the 
Pillar Two rules. The legislation is effective for bp from 1 January 2024 and includes an income inclusion rule and a domestic minimum tax, which together 
are designed to ensure a minimum effective tax rate of 15% in each country in which the group operates. Similar legislation is being enacted by other 
governments around the world. In line with the amendments to IAS 12, the exception from accounting for deferred tax for the Pillar Two rules has been 
applied and there are no impacts on the consolidated financial statements for 2023. Based on an assessment of historic data and forecasts for the  year 
ending 31 December 2024 , the Group does not expect a material exposure to Pillar Two income taxes for the year ending 31 December 2024.
Significant judgement and estimate: taxation
The value of deferred tax assets and liabilities is an area involving inherent uncertainty and estimation and balances are therefore subject to risk of 
material change as a result of underlying assumptions and judgements used, in particular the forecast of future profitability used to determine the 
recoverability of deferred tax, for example future oil and gas prices, see ‘Significant judgement and estimates - Recoverability of asset carrying values’. It 
is impracticable to disclose the extent of the possible effects of profitability assumptions on the group’s deferred tax assets. It is reasonably possible that 
to the extent that actual outcomes differ from management’s estimates, material income tax charges or credits, and material changes in current and 
deferred tax assets or liabilities, may arise within the next financial year and in future periods. 
Judgement is required when determining whether a particular tax is an income tax or another type of tax (for example, a production tax). The attributes of 
the tax, including whether it is calculated on profits or another measure such as production or revenues, the extent of deductibility of costs and the 
interaction with existing income taxes, are considered in determining the classification of the tax. Accounting for deferred tax is applied to income taxes 
as described above but is not applied to other types of taxes; rather such taxes are recognized in the income statement in accordance with the applicable 
accounting policy such as Provisions and contingencies. 
This judgement is considered significant only in relation to the group’s taxes payable under the fiscal terms of bp’s onshore concession in Abu Dhabi. 
These are principally reported as income taxes rather than as production taxes.
For more information see Note 9  and Note 33 .
Customs duties and sales taxes
Customs duties and sales taxes that are passed on or charged to customers are excluded from revenues and expenses. Assets and liabilities are 
recognized net of the amount of customs duties or sales tax except:
•Customs duties or sales taxes incurred on the purchase of goods and services which are not recoverable from the taxation authority are recognized as 
part of the cost of acquisition of the asset.
•Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs duty or sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included within receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
186 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Own equity instruments – treasury shares
The group’s holdings in its own equity instruments are shown as deductions from shareholders’ equity. Treasury shares represent bp shares repurchased 
and available for specific and limited purposes. For accounting purposes, shares held in Employee Share Ownership Plans (ESOPs) to meet the future 
requirements of the employee share-based payment plans are treated in the same manner as treasury shares and are, therefore, included in the 
consolidated financial statements as treasury shares. The cost of treasury shares subsequently sold or reissued is calculated on a weighted-average 
basis. Consideration, if any, received for the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity. No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the 
purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares. Shares repurchased under the share buy-back programme which are immediately cancelled are not 
shown as treasury shares, but are shown as a deduction from the profit and loss account reserve in the group statement of changes in equity.
Revenue  and other income
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized when or as the group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a promised good 
or service to a customer. The transfer of control of oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids, LNG, petroleum and chemical products, and other items usually 
coincides with title passing to the customer and the customer taking physical possession. The group  principally satisfies its performance obligations at a 
point in time; the amounts of revenue recognized relating to performance obligations satisfied over time are not significant. 
When, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied, the group recognizes as revenue the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to that 
performance obligation. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the  group expects to be entitled. The transaction price is allocated 
to the performance obligations in the contract based on standalone selling prices of the goods or services promised.
Contracts for the sale of commodities are typically priced by reference to quoted prices. Revenue from term commodity contracts is recognized based on 
the contractual pricing provisions for each delivery. Certain of these contracts have pricing terms based on prices at a point in time after delivery has been 
made. Revenue from such contracts is initially recognized based on relevant prices at the time of delivery and subsequently adjusted as appropriate. All 
revenue from these contracts, both that recognized at the time of delivery and that from post-delivery price adjustments, is disclosed as revenue from 
contracts with customers.
Sales and purchase of commodities accounted for under IFRS 15 are presented on a gross basis in Revenue from contracts with customers and 
Purchases respectively. Physically settled derivatives which represent trading or optimization activities are presented net alongside financially settled 
derivative contracts in Other operating revenues within Sales and other operating income. Certain physically settled sale and purchase derivative contracts 
which are not part of trading and optimization activities are presented gross within Other operating revenues and Purchases respectively. Changes in the 
fair value of derivative assets and liabilities prior to physical delivery are also classified as other operating revenues. 
Physical exchanges with counterparties in the same line of business in order to facilitate sales to customers are reported net, as are sales and purchases 
made with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a physical exchange. 
Where the group acts as agent on behalf of a third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated fee income is recognized but no 
purchase or sale is recorded.
Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues (using the effective interest rate, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset).
Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholders’ right to receive the payment is established.
Contract asset and contract liability balances are included within amounts presented for trade receivables and other payables respectively.
Finance costs
Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their 
intended use. All other finance costs are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Updates to material accounting policy information
Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards 
There are no new or amended standards or interpretations adopted from  1 January 2023 onwards, including  the amendments to IAS 12 'Income Taxes' as 
described on page 186 and IFRS 17 'Insurance Contracts,' that have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements for 2023. Further, there 
are no new or amended standards not yet adopted that are expected to have a material impact. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 187

2. Non-current assets held for sale  
The carrying amount of assets classified as held for sale at 31 December 2023  is $151 million  (2022  $1,242 million ), with associated liabilities of 
$62 million  (2022  $321 million ).
customers & products
On 16 November 2023, bp entered into an agreement to sell its Türkiye ground fuels business to Petrol Ofisi. This includes the group's interest in three joint 
venture terminals in Türkiye. Completion of the sale is subject to regulatory approvals. The carrying amount of assets classified as held for sale at 
31 December 2023  is $151 million , with associated liabilities of $62 million . Cumulative foreign exchange losses within reserves of approximately 
$850 million  are expected to be recycled to the group income statement at completion.
Transactions that have been classified as held for sale during 2023, but were completed by 31 December 2023, are described below.
gas & low carbon energy
The assets held for sale balance at 31 December 2022  included assets of $511 million  and associated liabilities of $48 million  relating to the agreement to 
sell bp's upstream business in Algeria to Eni. The transaction closed on 28 February 2023.
customers & products
In addition, at 31 December 2022  assets of $731 million  and associated liabilities of $273 million  were classified as held for sale relating to the sale of bp's 
50%  interest in the bp-Husky Toledo refinery in Ohio US, to Cenovus Energy, its partner in the facility. The sale completed on 28 February 2023.
The total assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2023  and 2022 , which for 2023 are all in the customers & products segments and for 2022 in 
the gas & low carbon energy and customers & products segments, are set out in the table below.
$ million
2023 2022
Property, plant and equipment  49  693 
Goodwill  —  58 
Intangible assets  3  — 
Loans  1  — 
Inventories  —  255 
Cash  —  35 
Trade and other receivables  98  201 
Assets classified as held for sale  151  1,242 
Trade and other payables  (1)  (256) 
Lease liabilities  (40)  (14) 
Provisions  (10)  (36) 
Deferred tax liabilities  —  (15) 
Defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefit plan deficits  (11)  — 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale  (62)  (321) 
188 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

3. Business combinations and other significant transactions  
Business combinations  
2023
The group undertook a number of business combinations during 2023. Total consideration paid in cash amounted to $1,282 million  (2022  $3,671 million ), 
offset by cash acquired of  $484 million  (2022  $141 million ). 
The fair value of the net assets (including goodwill) recognized from business combinations in the full year, inclusive of measurement period adjustments 
for business combinations in previous periods, was  $1,228 million  (2022  $4,121 million ). This principally related to the acquisition of TravelCenters of 
America.
2022
Archaea Energy
On 28 December 2022, bp acquired 100% of the issued common stock of Archaea Energy Inc. a leading producer of renewable natural gas (RNG) in the US, 
that was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The total cash consideration for the transaction, all paid at completion, was $3,137 million . 
The transaction was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method. As the transaction completed shortly prior to the end of the 
reporting period, the acquisition-date fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired reported in 2022 were provisional. The final and provisional fair values 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, as at the date of acquisition are shown in the table below. The measurement period adjustments between 
the provisional and final values were recognized in 2023 as the impact on the comparative period was not material. The intangible assets recognized are 
primarily the biogas rights agreements Archaea Energy has with landfill owners. The goodwill recognized reflects the part of the project development 
pipeline that did not qualify for separate recognition at the acquisition date and goodwill arising from recognition of deferred tax liabilities on fair value 
uplifts. The goodwill balance is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The transaction included a step acquisition of the Mavrix LLC joint venture, which bp and Archaea Energy each held a 50%  interest in prior to this 
transaction. The final fair value of bp’s interest in Mavrix LLC immediately before the acquisition date was $303 million  and the gain recognized in ‘Interest 
and other income’, initially in 2022 and revised in 2023, as a result of remeasuring this interest to fair value wa s $196 million . 
$ million
Provisional Final
Assets
Property plant and equipment  885  929 
Goodwill  409  707 
Intangible assets  3,475  3,178 
Investments in equity-accounted entities  917  883 
Inventory  42  31 
Trade and other receivables  67  47 
Cash and cash equivalents  107  96 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables  (1,032)  (1,145) 
Finance debt  (1,044)  (1,044) 
Deferred tax liabilities  (293)  (214) 
Provisions  (16)  (21) 
Non-controlling interest  (7)  (7) 
Total consideration  3,510  3,440 
Of which:
Cash  3,137  3,137 
Fair value of previously held interest in Mavrix LLC  373  303 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 189

4. Disposals and impairment  
The following amounts were recognized in the income statement in respect of disposals and impairments.
$ million
 2023 2022 2021
Gains on sale of businesses and fixed assets
gas & low carbon energy  19  45  1,034 
oil production & operations  297  3,446  869 
customers & products  44  374  (52) 
other businesses & corporate  9  1  25 
 369  3,866  1,876 
 $ million
 2023 2022 2021
Losses on sale of businesses and fixed assets, and closures
gas & low carbon energy  9  —  1 
oil production & operations  5  921  86 
customers & products  143  177  142 
other businesses & corporate  (1)  11,083  1 
 156  12,181  230 
Impairment losses
gas & low carbon energy  2,213  745  834 
oil production & operations  1,840  4,480  1,617 
customers & products  1,614  1,874  962 
other businesses & corporate  80  13,536  63 
 5,747  20,635  3,476 
Impairment reversals
gas & low carbon energy  (1)  (1,333)  (2,338) 
oil production & operations  (26)  (893)  (2,479) 
customers & products  —  (68)  (7) 
other businesses & corporate  (19)  —  (3) 
 (46)  (2,294)  (4,827) 
Impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assets, and closures  5,857  30,522  (1,121) 
Disposals
Disposal proceeds and principal gains and losses on disposals by segment are described below.
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Proceeds from disposals of fixed assets  133  709  1,145 
Proceeds from disposals of businesses, net of cash disposed  1,193  1,841  5,812 
 1,326  2,550  6,957 
By business
gas & low carbon energy  536  22  2,425 
oil production & operations  333  1,935  3,022 
customers & products  436  592  1,050 
other businesses & corporate  21  1  460 
 1,326  2,550  6,957 
Proceeds from disposals of businesses in 2023 includes $477 million  relating to the sale of the upstream business in Algeria to Eni and $351 million  
relating to the disposal of the bp-Husky Toledo refinery to Cenovus Energy. At 31 December 2023 , deferred consideration relating to disposals amounted 
to $141 million  receivable within one year ( 2022  $191 million  and 2021  $205 million ) and $217 million  receivable after one year ( 2022  $194 million  and 
2021  $823 million ). The amounts of deferred consideration are reported within Trade and other receivables in Other receivables in the group balance sheet. 
In addition, contingent consideration receivable relating to disposals amounted to $1,694 million  at 31 December 2023  (2022  $1,896 million  and 2021  
$1,917 million ). The contingent consideration at 31 December 2023  relates to the prior period disposals of our Alaskan business and certain assets in the 
North Sea and the disposal of our 50%  interest in the Sunrise oil sands project in Canada.  These amounts of contingent consideration are reported within 
Other investments on the group balance sheet - see Note 18  for further information. 
Gains and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assets, and closures
gas & low carbon energy
In 2021 gains on disposal of businesses and fixed assets were principally related to a $1,031 million  gain on disposal of a 20%  participating interest in 
Block 61 in Oman. 
190 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

4. Disposals and impairment  – continued
oil production & operations
In 20 23 gains principally related to prior period disposals in the US and Canada. 
In 2022 gains principally related to a gain of $1,932 million  arising from the contribution of bp's Angolan business to Azule Energy, a gain of $904 million  
related to the deemed disposal of 12%  of the group's interest in Aker BP, an associate of bp, following completion of Aker BP's acquisition of Lundin 
Energy, and $349 million  in relation to the disposal of the group's interest in the Rumaila field in Iraq to Basra Energy Company, an associate of bp.  
Losses included $479 million  of accumulated exchange losses previously charged to equity and taken to the income statement as a result of the decision 
to exit bp's other businesses with Rosneft within Russia.
In 2021 gains principally resulted from adjustments to disposals in prior periods. Gains include $171 million  from the disposal of a 2.1%  interest in Aker BP 
in the North Sea, $100 million  from the disposal of certain exploration assets in Brazil, and $502 million  fair value movements in relation to deferred and 
contingent consideration in relation to prior disposals in Alaska and the North Sea.
customers & products
In 2022, gains principally relate to a gain of $268 million  arising from the divestment of our Swiss retail assets.
other businesses and corporate
In 2022 the losses on disposal of businesses and fixed assets was $11,082 million  in respect of the decision to exit our holding in Rosneft which resulted 
in the reclassification to the income statement of $10,372 million  of accumulated exchange losses, a cash flow hedge reserve of $651 million  relating to 
the original acquisition of Rosneft shares and bp's cumulative share of Rosneft's other comprehensive income of $59 million  which were all previously 
charged to equity.
Summarized financial information relating to the sale of businesses is shown in the table below.
The principal transactions categorized as a business disposal in 2023 were the sale of the upstream business in Algeria to Eni and the disposal of the bp-
Husky Toledo refinery to Cenovus Energy.
The principal transactions categorized as a business disposal in 2022 were the formation of Azule Energy, the formation of Basra Energy Company and the 
sale of our 50%  interest in the Sunrise oil sands project in Canada.
The principal transaction categorized as a business disposal in 2021 was the sale of a 20%  participating interest from bp’s 60%  participating interest in 
Block 61 in Oman. 
$ million
 2023 2022 2021
Non-current assets  1,145  3,681  1,620 
Current assets  557  2,972  69 
Non-current liabilities  (60)  (1,869)  (287) 
Current liabilities  (454)  (1,074)  (3) 
Total carrying amount of net assets disposed  1,188  3,710  1,399 
Recycling of foreign exchange on disposal  —  (26)  35 
Costs on disposal  57  488  (5) 
 1,245  4,172  1,429 
Gains (losses) on sale of businesses  158  6,219  1,632 
Total consideration  1,403  10,391  3,061 
Non-cash consideration  (51)  (8,999)  (108) 
Consideration received (receivable)  (159)  449  2,859 
Proceeds from the sale of businesses, net of cash disposeda 1,193  1,841  5,812 
aProceeds are stated net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of $33 million  (2022  $318 million  and 2021  $2 million ).
Impairments
Impairment losses and impairment reversals in each segment are described below. For information on significant estimates and judgements made in 
relation to impairments see Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangibles, goodwill and equity-accounted entities within Note 1 . See also Note 
12, and Note 15  for further information on impairments by asset category. 
gas & low carbon energy
The 2023 impairment loss of $2,213 million  primarily relates to losses incurred in respect of certain assets in Mauritania & Senegal ( $1,434 million ) and 
principally arose as a result of increased forecast future expenditure. A further $565 million  relates to producing assets in Trinidad and arose as a result of 
changes to the group's oil and gas price and discount rate assumptions and activity phasing. The recoverable amount of all CGUs for which impairment 
charges or reversals were recognized in 2023 in total, based on their value in use , is $4,811 million .
The 2022 impairment loss of $745 million  primarily relates to losses incurred in respect of certain assets in Mauritania & Senegal ( $729 million ) and 
principally arose as a result of increased forecast future expenditure. The 2022 impairment reversal of $1,333 million  primarily relates to the Trinidad CGU 
($1,331 million ) and principally arose as a result of changes to the group's oil and gas price assumptions. The recoverable amount of all CGUs for which 
impairment charges or reversals were recognized in 2022 in total, based on their value in use, is $9,609 million .Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 191

4. Disposals and impairment  – continued
The 2021 impairment loss of $834 million  primarily relates to losses incurred in respect of certain assets in Mauritania & Senegal ( $819 million ) and 
principally arose as a result of increased forecast future expenditure . The 2021 impairment reversal of $2,338 million  primarily relates to reversals in 
respect of producing assets in the KGD6 CGU in India ( $1,229 million ) and the Trinidad CGU ( $600 million ) and principally arose as a result of changes to 
the group's oil and gas price assumptions and re-assessment of reserves . The recoverable amount of all CGUs for which impairment charges or reversals 
were recognized in 2021 in total, based on their value in use, is $17,330 million .
oil production & operations
Impairment losses and reversals in all years relate primarily to producing assets and, in 2022, equity accounted investments.
The 2023 impairment loss of $1,840 million  primarily arose as a result of changes to the group's oil and gas price and discount rate assumptions, activity 
phasing and disposal decisions in relation to certain assets in North Sea ( $852 million ) and in bpx energy ( $802 million ). The recoverable amount of all 
CGUs for which impairment charges or reversals were recognized in 2023 in total, based on their value in use, is $14,072 million .
The 2022 impairment loss of $4,480 million  primarily relates to impairment of the Pan American Energy Group S.L. joint venture as a result of expected 
portfolio changes ( $2,900 million ) and the decision to exit bp's other businesses with Rosneft within Russia ( $1,043 million ). The 2022 impairment reversal 
of $893 million  principally relates to changes in price and reserves assumptions in the North Sea ( $643 million ). The recoverable amount of all CGUs for 
which impairment charges or reversals were recognized in 2022 in total, based on their value in use, is $7,831 million .
The 2021 impairment loss of $1,617 million  principally relates to the decision to exit the Sunrise oil sands project in Canada ( $1,109 million ). The 2021 
impairment reversals of $2,479 million  principally arose as a result of changes to the group’s oil and gas price assumptions and re-assessment of 
reserves. They include amounts in BPX Energy ( $1,356 million ) and the North Sea ( $950 million ). The principal CGU on which a significant impairment 
reversal was recognized was $982 million  for Hawkville in BPX Energy. The recoverable amount of all CGUs for which impairment charges or reversals 
were recognized in 2021, based on their value in use, is $16,586 million .
customers & products
The 2023 impairment loss of $1,614 million  primarily relates to strategy implementation and changes to economic assumptions in the products business 
including  an impairment of the Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany ( $1,336 million ). The recoverable amounts of the CGUs were based on value-in-use 
calculations. The recoverable amount of all CGUs for which impairment charges or reversals were recognized in 2023 in total, based on their value in use, 
is $327 million .
The 2022 impairment loss of $1,874 million  primarily relates to changes in economic assumptions in the products business including an impairment of the 
Gelsenkirchen refinery in Germany ( $1,366 million ), and announced portfolio changes. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs were based on value-in-use 
calculations. The recoverable amount of all CGUs for which impairment charges or reversals were recognized in 2022 in total, based on their value in use, 
is $1,648 million .
2021 impairment loss of $962 million  principally relates to announced portfolio changes in the products business ( $595 million ).
Other businesses and corporate
The 2022 impairment loss of $13,536 million  arises primarily a result of bp's decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft ( $13,479 million , including 
$528 million  which relates to estimated earnings in the first two months of the year prior to the loss of significant influence). The recoverable amount of 
the CGU which comprises Rosneft is estimated to be $nil.
Impairment losses totalling $63 million  were recognized in 2021.
192 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

5. Segmental analysis  
The group’s organizational structure reflects the various activities in which bp is engaged as well as how performance and resource allocation is evaluated 
by the chief operating decision maker. At 31 December 2023 , bp has three  reportable segments: Gas & low carbon energy, Oil production & operations, and 
Customers & products. Each are managed separately, with decisions taken for the segment as a whole, and represent a single operating segment that 
does not result from aggregating two or more segments. 
Gas & low carbon energy comprises regions with upstream businesses that predominantly produce natural gas, gas marketing and trading activities and 
the group's solar, wind and hydrogen businesses. 
Oil production & operations comprises regions with upstream activities that predominantly produce crude oil. 
Customers & products comprises the group’s customer-focused businesses, which includes convenience and retail fuels, EV charging, as well as Castrol, 
aviation and B2B and midstream. It also includes our products businesses, refining & oil trading, as well as our bioenergy businesses.
Other businesses and corporate also comprises the group’s shipping and treasury functions, and corporate activities worldwide.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the group’s accounting policies described in Note 1 . However, IFRS requires that the 
measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision maker for the 
purposes of performance assessment and resource allocation. For bp, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost profit or loss before interest and 
tax which reflects the replacement cost of supplies by excluding from profit or loss before interest and tax inventory holding gains and lossesa. 
Replacement cost profit or loss before interest and tax for the group is not a recognized measure under IFRS.
Sales between segments are made at prices that approximate market prices, taking into account the volumes involved. Segment revenues and segment 
results include transactions between business segments. These transactions and any unrealized profits and losses are eliminated on consolidation, unless 
unrealized losses provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Sales to external customers by region are based on the location of the group 
subsidiary which made the sale. The UK region includes the UK-based international activities of customers & products.
All surpluses and deficits recognized on the group balance sheet in respect of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are allocated to Other 
businesses and corporate. However, the periodic expense relating to these plans is allocated to the operating segments based upon the business in which 
the employees work.
Certain financial information is provided separately for the US as this is an individually material country for bp, and for the UK as this is bp’s country of 
domicile.
aInventory holding gains and losses represent:
• the difference between the cost of sales calculated using the replacement cost of inventory and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out (FIFO) method after adjusting for any changes in 
provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost. Under the FIFO method, which we use for IFRS reporting of inventories other than for trading inventories, the cost of 
inventory charged to the income statement is based on its historical cost of purchase or manufacture, rather than its replacement cost. In volatile energy markets, this can have a significant distorting 
effect on reported income. The amounts disclosed as inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the charge to the income statement for inventory on a FIFO basis (after 
adjusting for any related movements in net realizable value provisions) and the charge that would have arisen based on the replacement cost of inventory. For this purpose, the replacement cost of 
inventory is calculated using data from each operation’s production and manufacturing system, either on a monthly basis, or separately for each transaction where the system allows this approach. 
• an adjustment relating to certain trading inventories that are not price risk managed which relate to a minimum inventory volume that is required to be held to maintain underlying business activities. This 
adjustment represents the movement in fair value of the inventories due to prices, on a grade-by-grade basis, during the period. This is calculated from each operation’s inventory management system on 
a monthly basis using the discrete monthly movement in market prices for these inventories.
The amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial statements as a gain or loss. No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of inventories held as part of a trading position and certain 
other temporary inventory positions that are price risk-managed.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 193

5. Segmental analysis  – continued
$ million
 2023
By businessgas & low 
carbon energyoil production & 
operationscustomers & 
productsother
 businesses &
corporateConsolidation 
adjustment and 
eliminationsTotal 
group
Segment revenues          
Sales and other operating revenues  50,297  24,904  160,215  2,657  (27,943)  210,130 
Less: sales and other operating revenues between segments  (1,808)  (23,708)  (367)  (2,060)  27,943  — 
Third party sales and other operating revenues  48,489  1,196  159,848  597  —  210,130 
Earnings from joint ventures and associates – after interest and 
tax  (677)  1,164  427  (16)  —  898 
Segment results
Replacement cost profit (loss) before interest and taxation  14,080  11,191  4,230  (903)  (14)  28,584 
Inventory holding gains (losses)a 1  —  (1,237)  —  —  (1,236) 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation  14,081  11,191  2,993  (903)  (14)  27,348 
Finance costs  (3,840) 
Net finance income relating to pensions and other post-
retirement benefits  241 
Profit before taxation  23,749 
Other income statement items
Depreciation, depletion and amortization
US  96  3,554  1,883  85  —  5,618 
Non-US  5,584  2,138  1,665  923  —  10,310 
Charges for provisions, net of write-back of unused provisions, 
including change in discount rate  139  35  2,007  152  —  2,333 
Segment assets
Investments in joint ventures and associates  4,173  10,721  5,327  28  —  20,249 
Additions to non-current assetsb 4,859  7,384  9,383  1,075  —  22,701 
aSee explanation of inventory holding gains and losses on page 193 .
bIncludes additions to property, plant and equipment; goodwill; intangible assets; investments in joint ventures; and investments in associates.
194 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

5. Segmental analysis  – continued
$ million
    2022
By businessgas & low 
carbon energyoil production & 
operationscustomers & 
productsother businesses 
& corporateConsolidation 
adjustment and 
eliminationsTotal 
group
Segment revenues        
Sales and other operating revenues  56,255  33,193  188,623  2,299  (38,978)  241,392 
Less: sales and other operating revenues between segments  (5,913)  (30,294)  (1,418)  (1,353)  38,978  — 
Third party sales and other operating revenues  50,342  2,899  187,205  946  —  241,392 
Earnings from joint ventures and associates – after interest and 
tax  148  1,609  248  525  —  2,530 
Segment results        
Replacement cost profit (loss) before interest and taxation  14,696  19,721  8,869  (26,737)  139  16,688 
Inventory holding gains (losses)a (8)  (7)  1,366  —  —  1,351 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation  14,688  19,714  10,235  (26,737)  139  18,039 
Finance costs  (2,703) 
Net finance income relating to pensions and other post-
retirement benefits       69 
Profit before taxation       15,405 
Other income statement items        
Depreciation, depletion and amortization
US  75  3,141  1,328  80  —  4,624 
Non-US  4,933  2,423  1,542  796  —  9,694 
Charges for provisions, net of write-back of unused provisions, 
including change in discount rate  (234)  213  3,955  143  —  4,077 
Segment assets        
Investments in joint ventures and associates  5,299  11,370  3,875  57  —  20,601 
Additions to non-current assetsb  4,439  15,098  9,541  1,047  —  30,125 
aSee explanation of inventory holding gains and losses on page 193 .
bIncludes additions to property, plant and equipment; goodwill; intangible assets; investments in joint ventures; and investments in associates.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 195

5. Segmental analysis  – continued
$ million
 2021
By business gas & low 
carbon energyoil production & 
operationscustomers & 
productsother businesses 
& corporateConsolidation 
adjustment and 
eliminationsTotal 
group
Segment revenues        
Sales and other operating revenues  30,840  24,519  130,095  1,724  (29,439)  157,739 
Less: sales and other operating revenues between segments  (4,563)  (22,408)  (1,226)  (1,242)  29,439  — 
Third party sales and other operating revenues  26,277  2,111  128,869  482  —  157,739 
Earnings from joint ventures and associates – after interest and 
tax  426  576  385  2,612  —  3,999 
Segment results
Replacement cost profit (loss) before interest and taxation  2,133  10,501  2,208  (348)  (67)  14,427 
Inventory holding gains (losses)a 33  8  3,355  —  —  3,655 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation  2,166  10,509  5,563  (89)  (67)  18,082 
Finance costs  (2,857) 
Net finance income relating to pensions and other post-
retirement benefits  2 
Profit before taxation  15,227 
Other income statement items        
Depreciation, depletion and amortization
US  80  3,174  1,349  94  —  4,697 
Non-US  4,384  3,354  1,651  719  —  10,108 
Charges for provisions, net of write-back of unused provisions, 
including change in discount rate  173  7  3,063  477  —  3,720 
Segment assets
Investments in joint ventures and associates  5,224  8,044  3,291  14,424  —  30,983 
Additions to non-current assetsb 4,963  6,090  3,940  1,007  —  16,000 
aSee explanation of inventory holding gains and losses on page 193 .
bIncludes additions to property, plant and equipment; goodwill; intangible assets; investments in joint ventures; and investments in associates.
$ million
   2023
By geographical area US Non-US Total
Revenues      
Third party sales and other operating revenuesa 60,577  149,553  210,130 
Other income statement items
Production and similar taxes  136  1,643  1,779 
Non-current assets
Non-current assetsb c 64,238  83,816  148,054 
aNon-US region includes UK $39,975 million  
bNon-US region includes UK $23,949 million
cIncludes property, plant and equipment; goodwill; intangible assets; investments in joint ventures; investments in associates; and non-current prepayments.
$ million
   2022
By geographical area US Non-US Total
Revenues      
Third party sales and other operating revenuesa 71,118  170,274  241,392 
Other income statement items
Production and similar taxes  194  2,131  2,325 
Non-current assets
Non-current assetsb c 60,237  89,144  149,381 
aNon-US region includes UK $36,541 million . 
bNon-US region includes UK $24,813 million . 
cIncludes property, plant and equipment; goodwill; intangible assets; investments in joint ventures; investments in associates; and non-current prepayments.
196 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

5. Segmental analysis  – continued
$ million
   2021
By geographical area US Non-US Total
Revenues      
Third party sales and other operating revenuesa 53,748  103,991  157,739 
Other income statement items
Production and similar taxes  108  1,200  1,308 
Non-current assets
Non-current assetsb c 54,395  108,793  163,188 
aNon-US region includes UK $11,248 million .
bNon-US region includes UK $19,530 million .
cIncludes property, plant and equipment; goodwill; intangible assets; investments in joint ventures; investments in associates; and non-current prepayments.
6. Sales and other operating revenues  
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Crude oil  2,413  6,309  5,483 
Oil products  128,969  149,854  101,418 
Natural gas, LNG and NGLs  29,541  41,770  24,378 
Non-oil products and other revenues from contracts with customers  10,298  7,896  6,082 
Revenue from contracts with customers  171,221  205,829  137,361 
Other operating revenuesa 38,909  35,563  20,378 
Total sales and other operating revenues  210,130  241,392  157,739 
aPrincipally relates to commodity derivative transactions including sales of bp own production in trading books.
.
An analysis of third-party sales and other operating revenues by segment and region is provided in Note 5 .
The group’s sales to customers of crude oil and oil products were substantially all made by the customers & products segment. The group’s sales to 
customers of natural gas, LNG and NGLs were made by the gas & low carbon energy segment. A significant majority of the group’s sales of non-oil 
products and other revenues from contracts with customers were made by the customers & products segment.
7. Income statement analysis  
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Interest and other income
Interest income from
Financial assets measured at amortized cost  1,034  371  221 
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss  215  59  5 
Other income  386  673  355 
 1,635  1,103  581 
Currency exchange losses charged to the income statementa 74  160  345 
Expenditure on research and development  298  274  266 
Costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill (pre-interest and tax)b 57  84  70 
Finance costs
Interest expense on lease liabilities  363  245  288 
Interest expense on other liabilities measured at amortized costc 3,115  2,070  1,820 
Capitalized at 4.88 % (2022  3.56 % and 2021  2.63 %)d (514)  (464)  (287) 
Finance debt risk management activitiese (35)  43  145 
Unwinding of discount on provisions  504  369  391 
Unwinding of discount on other payables measured at amortized cost  407  440  500 
 3,840  2,703  2,857 
aExcludes exchange gains and losses arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
bIncluded within production and manufacturing expenses.
c2023  includes a loss  of $49 million  (2022  gain of $37 million  and 2021  loss of $195 million ) associated with the buyback of finance debt.
dTax relief on capitalized interest is approximately $130 million  (2022  $108 million  and 2021  $66 million ).
eRelates to temporary valuation differences associated with the group’s interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk management of finance debt.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 197

8. Exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources  
The following financial information represents the amounts included within the group totals relating to activity associated with the exploration for and 
evaluation of oil and natural gas resources. All such activity is recorded within the gas & low carbon energy and oil production & operations segments. 
For information on significant judgements made in relation to oil and natural gas accounting see Intangible assets in Note 1 .
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Exploration and evaluation costs
Exploration expenditure written off  746  385  167 
Other exploration costs  251  200  257 
Exploration expense for the year  997  585  424 
Impairment losses  20  2  1 
Intangible assets – exploration and appraisal expenditurea 4,328  4,213  4,289 
Liabilities  109  88  98 
Net assets  4,219  4,125  4,191 
Cash used in operating activities  251  200  257 
Cash used in investing activities  1,039  909  369 
aAmount capitalized at 31 December 2023 , 2022 and 2021 relates to assets in various regions. The largest of these is approximately  $600 million  capitalized in the Middle East region (2022 approximately 
$600 million  and 2021 approximately $700 million  and capitalized in the Middle East region).
9. Taxation  
Tax on profit
$ million
 2023 2022 2021
Current tax
Charge for the year  9,048  12,523  4,808 
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (373)  145  138 
 8,675  12,668  4,946 
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current yeara (238)  4,768  3,366 
Adjustment in respect of prior yearsb (568)  (674)  (1,572) 
 (806)  4,094  1,794 
Tax charge on profit  7,869  16,762  6,740 
a2022 includes a charge of $1,834 million  in respect of the impact of the UK Energy Profits Levy on existing temporary differences unwinding over the period 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. 
bThe adjustment in respect of prior years reflects the reassessment of the deferred tax balances for prior periods in light of changes in facts and circumstances during the year, including changes to price 
assumptions and profit forecasts. 2023 also includes a credit of $232 million  in respect of a revision to the deferred tax impact of the UK Energy Profits Levy.
In 2023 , the total tax credit  recognized within other comprehensive income was $735 million  (2022  $266 million  charge  and 2021  $1,252 million  charge ). In 
2023 and 2021 this primarily comprises the deferred tax impact of the remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or 
asset. In 2022 this primarily comprises a release of deferred withholding tax on other comprehensive income movements relating to Rosneft. See Note 32  
for further information. 
The total tax charge  recognized directly in equity was $56 million  (2022  $214 million  credit  and 2021  $170 million  charge ). This mainly relates to 
transactions involving non-controlling interests. 
198 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

9. Taxation  – continued
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate
The following table provides a reconciliation of the group weighted average statutory corporate income tax rate to the effective tax rate of the group on 
profit or loss before taxation. For 2022 the items presented in the reconciliation are affected by the impacts of Rosneft. In order to provide a more 
meaningful analysis of the effective tax rate for 2022, the table also presents a separate reconciliation for the group excluding the impacts of Rosneft, and 
for the impacts of Rosneft in isolation.
$ million
20232022 excluding 
impact of 
Rosneft2022 impact of 
Rosnefta2022 2021
Profit (loss) before taxation  23,749  40,925  (25,520)  15,405  15,227 
Tax charge (credit) on profit or lossb 7,869  17,823  (1,061)  16,762  6,740 
Effective tax rate  33 %  44 %  4 %  109 %  44 %
%
Tax rate computed at the weighted average statutory ratec 34  42  20  77  54 
Increase (decrease) resulting from
Tax reported in equity-accounted entitiesd (2)  (1)  —  (4)  (3) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (4)  (1)  —  (3)  (9) 
Deferred tax not recognized  2  (1)  —  (2)  8 
Tax incentives for investment  —  —  —  (1)  (1) 
Disposal impactse —  (3)  —  (8)  (4) 
Foreign exchange  —  1  —  3  1 
Items not deductible for tax purposes  2  2  —  5  1 
Impact of bp's decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft  —  —  (16)  27  — 
Tax rate change effect of UK Energy Profits Levyf —  4  —  12  — 
Other  1  1  —  3  (3) 
Effective tax rate  33  44  4  109  44 
aIncludes the impact of bp's decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft and its other businesses with Rosneft in Russia. 
bThe tax credit regarding the impact of Rosneft relates to the release of deferred withholding tax on unremitted earnings.
cCalculated based on the statutory corporate income tax rate applicable in the countries in which the group operates, weighted by the profits and losses before tax in the respective countries. 2023 and 
2022 include the impact of the UK Energy Profits Levy.
dIncludes withholding tax in respect of distributions from equity-accounted entities.
e2022 primarily relates to the contribution of bp's Angolan business to Azule Energy and 2021 primarily relates to the divestment of a 20%  stake in Oman Block 61.
f2022 comprises the deferred tax impact of the UK Energy Profits Levy on existing temporary differences.
Deferred tax
$ million
Analysis of movements during the year in the net deferred tax liability 2023 2022
At 1 January  6,618  2,370 
Exchange adjustmentsa 134  (334) 
Charge (credit) for the year in the income statement  (806)  4,094 
Charge (credit) for the year in other comprehensive income  (735)  272 
Charge (credit) for the year in equity  56  (214) 
Acquisitions and disposalsb 82  430 
At 31 December  5,349  6,618 
aPrimarily relates to the foreign currency retranslation effect on the deferred tax liability on pension plan surpluses in the UK.
b2022 primarily relates to the Archaea Energy acquisition and the contribution of bp's Angolan business to Azule Energy.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 199

9. Taxation  – continued
The following table provides an analysis of deferred tax in the income statement and the balance sheet by category of temporary difference:
$ million
Income statement Balance sheet
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Deferred tax liability
Depreciation  (1,552)  1,863  899  17,392  18,025 
Pension plan surplusesa 133  42  105  2,568  3,022 
Derivative financial instruments  12  (21)  (33)  12  — 
Other taxable temporary differencesb 10  (992)  180  1,020  1,000 
 (1,397)  892  1,151  20,992  22,047 
Deferred tax asset
Depreciation  (166)  (309)  (846)  (2,141)  (1,974) 
Lease liabilities  (176)  (8)  (43)  (1,785)  (1,047) 
Pension plan and other post-retirement benefit plan deficits  (60)  47  119  (755)  (647) 
Decommissioning, environmental and other provisions  563  770  (744)  (6,042)  (6,653) 
Derivative financial instruments  (14)  (6)  (9)  (136)  (282) 
Tax credits  (67)  1,578  1,282  (893)  (779) 
Loss carry forward  296  1,536  1,064  (2,467)  (2,669) 
Other deductible temporary differencesc 215  (406)  (180)  (1,424)  (1,378) 
 591  3,202  643  (15,643)  (15,429) 
Net deferred tax charge (credit) and net deferred tax liability  (806)  4,094  1,794  5,349  6,618 
Of which – deferred tax liabilities  9,617  10,526 
 – deferred tax assets  4,268  3,908 
aIn November 2023 the UK Government announced a reduction in the authorised surplus payments charge applicable to defined benefit pension schemes from 35% to 25%. The legislation has not yet been 
enacted or substantively enacted, but is expected to be effective from 6 April 2024. The change is expected to reduce the deferred tax liability on pension plan surpluses by around $0.7 billion  with the 
related gain re cognised in other comprehensive income when the legislation is substantively enacted.
bThe 2022 income statement includes amounts relating to deferred withholding tax on unremitted earnings of Rosneft. The 2023 and 2022 balance sheet amounts do not include any temporary differences 
that are individually significant in their nature.
cThe 2023 and 2022 balance sheet amounts do not include any temporary differences that are individually significant in their nature.
Of the $4,268 million  of deferred tax assets recognized on the group balance sheet at 31 December 2023  (2022  $3,908 million ), $2,336 million  (2022  
$2,779 million ) relates to entities that have suffered a loss in either the current or preceding period. For 2023 , this mainly includes $1,003 million  in 
Germany, $672 million  in Mauritania and $500 million  in Senegal ( 2022  mainly included $1,333 million  in the UK, $505 million  in Mauritania and $370 
million  in Senegal). For 2023 these amounts are supported by forecasts consistent with bp's future oil and gas price assumptions (see Note 1 for further 
information) and for Germany, forecast profits associated with the customers & products businesses, that indicate sufficient future taxable profits will be 
available to utilize such assets within any applicable expiry period.
A summary of temporary differences, unused tax credits and unused tax losses for which deferred tax has not been recognized is shown in the table 
below.
$ billion
At 31 December 2023 2022
Unused US state tax lossesa 2.1  2.1 
Unused tax losses – other jurisdictionsb 5.6  5.4 
Unused tax credits  31.3  28.6 
of which – arising in the UKc 27.3  24.6 
                – arising in the USd 4.0  4.0 
Deductible temporary differencese 20.7  22.7 
Taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities  0.7  0.7 
aFor 2023 the majority of these losses expire in the period 2024-2043 with applicable tax rates ranging from 3% to 9%.
b2023 and 2022 mainly relate to the UK, Brazil and Canada. The majority of the unused tax losses have no fixed expiry date.
cThe UK unused tax credits arise predominantly in overseas branches of UK entities based in jurisdictions with higher statutory corporate income tax rates than the UK. No deferred tax asset has been 
recognized on these tax credits as they are unlikely to have value in the future; UK taxes on these overseas branches are largely mitigated by double tax relief in respect of overseas tax. These tax credits 
have no fixed expiry date.
dThe US unused tax credits predominantly comprise foreign tax credits. No deferred tax asset has been recognized on these tax credits as they are unlikely to have value in the future. For 2023 these tax 
credits expire in the period 2025-2033.
e2023 and 2022 mainly comprise fixed asset temporary differences in overseas branches of UK entities. Substantially all of the temporary differences have no expiry date.
$ million
Impact of previously unrecognized deferred tax or write-down of deferred tax assets on tax charge 2023 2022 2021
Current tax benefit relating to the utilization of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets  360  492  331 
Deferred tax benefit arising from the reversal of a previous write-down of deferred tax assets  3  —  773 
Deferred tax benefit relating to the recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets  332  792  820 
Deferred tax expense arising from the write-down of a previously recognized deferred tax asset  54  —  29 
200 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

10. Dividends  
The quarterly dividend which is expected to be paid on 28 March 2024 in respect of the fourth quarter 2023  is 7.270  cents per ordinary share ( $0.43620  per 
American Depositary Share (ADS)). The corresponding amount in sterling will be announced on 12 March 2024. 
Pence per share Cents per share $ million
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Dividends announced and paid in cash
Preference shares  1  1  2 
Ordinary shares
March  5.5507  4.1595  3.7684  6.610  5.460  5.250  1,183  1,068  1,063 
June  5.3089  4.3556  3.7118  6.610  5.460  5.250  1,152  1,061  1,062 
September  5.7320  5.1684  3.9529  7.270  6.006  5.460  1,249  1,140  1,100 
December  5.7367  4.9402  4.1045  7.270  6.006  5.460  1,224  1,088  1,077 
 22.3283  18.6237  15.5376  27.760  22.932  21.420  4,809  4,358  4,304 
Dividend announced, paid in March 2024
 7.270  1,222 
The amount of unclaimed dividends recognized as a liability in other payables at 31 December 2023  is $91 million  (2022  $69 million ). 
The board decided not to offer a scrip dividend alternative in respect of any dividends announced since the third quarter 2019, including the fourth quarter 
2023 dividend expected to be paid on 28 March 2024.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023  do not reflect the dividend announced on 6 February 2024 and which is expected to be 
paid on 28 March 2024 ; this will be treated as an appropriation of profit in the year ending 31 December 2024 .
11. Earnings per share  
Cents per share
Per ordinary share 2023 2022 2021
Basic earnings per share  87.78  (13.10)  37.57 
Diluted earnings per share  85.85  (13.10)  37.33 
  Dollars per share
Per American Depositary Share (ADS)a2023 2022 2021
Basic earnings per share  5.27  (0.79)  2.25 
Diluted earnings per share  5.15  (0.79)  2.24 
aOne ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
Basic earnings per ordinary share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to bp ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 
The weighted average number of shares outstanding includes certain shares that will be issuable in the future under employee share-based payment plans 
and excludes treasury shares, which includes shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts (ESOPs).
For the diluted earnings per share calculation, the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year is adjusted for the average number of 
shares that are potentially issuable in connection with employee share-based payment plans. If the inclusion of potentially issuable shares would decrease 
loss per share, the potentially issuable shares are excluded from the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings 
per share.
$ million
 2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) attributable to bp shareholders  15,239  (2,487)  7,565 
Less: dividend requirements on preference shares  1  1  2 
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp ordinary shareholders  15,238  (2,488)  7,563 
   Shares thousand
 2023 2022 2021
Basic weighted average number of ordinary sharesa 17,360,288  18,987,936  20,128,862 
Potential dilutive effect of ordinary shares issuable under employee share-based payment plans  389,790  —  131,526 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per 
share  17,750,078  18,987,936  20,260,388 
   Shares thousand
 2023 2022 2021
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares – ADS equivalent  2,893,381  3,164,656  3,354,810 
Potential dilutive effect of ordinary shares (ADS equivalent) issuable under employee share-based 
payment plans  64,965  —  21,921 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (ADS equivalent) outstanding used to calculate 
diluted earnings per share  2,958,346  3,164,656  3,376,731 
aExcludes treasury shares. See Note 31 for further information.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 201

11. Earnings per share  – continued
The number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2023 , excluding treasury shares, and including certain shares that will be issuable in the future 
under employee share-based payment plans was 16,824,651,796  (2022  17,974,112,648 ). Between 31 December 2023  and 16 February 2024 , the latest 
practicable date before the completion of these financial statements, there was a net decrease of 21,406,501  of ordinary shares primarily as a result of 
share issues in relation to employee share-based payment plans partially offset by share buy backs. For additional information on share buy backs see 
Note 31.
Employee share-based payment plans
The group operates share and share option plans for directors and certain employees to obtain ordinary shares and ADSs in the company. Information on 
these plans for directors is shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 105-132 .
The following table shows the number of shares potentially issuable under equity-settled employee share option plans, including the number of options 
outstanding, the number of options exercisable at the end of each year, and the corresponding weighted average exercise prices. The dilutive effect of 
these plans at 31 December is also shown.
Share options 2023 2022
Number of optionsa b 
thousandWeighted average
 exercise price $Number of optionsa b
thousandWeighted average
 exercise price $
Outstanding  545,044  4.04  564,079  4.00 
Exercisable  905  3.31  342  4.99 
Dilutive effect  166,581 n/a  83,204 n/a
aNumbers of options shown are ordinary share equivalents (one ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares).
bAt 31 December 2023  the quoted market price of one bp ordinary share was £4.66  (2022  £4.75 ).
In addition, the group operates a number of equity-settled employee share plans under which share units are granted to the group’s senior leaders and 
certain other employees. These plans typically have a  three -year  performance or restricted period during which the units accrue net notional dividends 
which are treated as having been reinvested. Leaving employment will normally preclude the conversion of units into shares, but special arrangements 
apply for participants that leave for qualifying reasons. The number of shares that are expected to vest each year under employee share plans are shown in 
the table below. The dilutive effect of the employee share plans at 31 December is also shown.
Share plans 2023 2022
Number of sharesaNumber of sharesa
Vesting thousand thousand
Within one year  226,190  167,672 
1 to 2 years  257,511  192,734 
2 to 3 years  114,500  226,027 
3 to 4 years  1,176  2,595 
Over 4 years  308  173 
 599,685  589,201 
Dilutive effect  284,908  244,886 
aNumbers of shares shown are ordinary share equivalents (one ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares).
There has been a net  decrease  of 109,230,677  in the number of potential ordinary shares relating to employee share-based payment plans between 
31 December 2023  and 16 February 2024 .
202 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

12. Property, plant and equipment (PP&E)
$ million
Land and land 
improvements BuildingsOil and gas 
propertiesa cPlant, 
machinery 
and 
equipmentFittings, 
fixtures and 
office 
equipmentcTransportationOil depots, 
storage tanks 
and service 
stations Total
Cost - owned PP&E
At 1 January 2023  3,513  950  179,028  44,662  2,202  3,076  10,089  243,520 
Exchange adjustments  112  2  —  294  31  2  342  783 
Additions  134  48  8,252  2,921  221  80  1,126  12,782 
Acquisitions  206  —  —  27  12  48  1,060  1,353 
Transfers from intangible assets  —  —  171  —  —  —  —  171 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  (7)  —  —  (3)  (3)  (1)  (74)  (88) 
Deletions and disposals  (34)  (8)  (2,105)  (517)  (173)  (247)  (319)  (3,403) 
At 31 December 2023  3,924  992  185,346  47,384  2,290  2,958  12,224  255,118 
Depreciation - owned PP&E
At 1 January 2023  700  501  111,434  22,903  1,671  2,431  5,819  145,459 
Exchange adjustments  14  3  —  200  18  2  206  443 
Charge for the year  45  30  10,468  1,519  163  85  629  12,939 
Impairment losses  108  22  3,628  1,467  —  10  58  5,293 
Impairment reversals  —  —  (18)  —  —  (9)  —  (27) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  (1)  —  —  (2)  (1)  (1)  (74)  (79) 
Deletions and disposals  (28)  (3)  (2,070)  (416)  (167)  (226)  (275)  (3,185) 
At 31 December 2023  838  553  123,442  25,671  1,684  2,292  6,363  160,843 
Owned PP&E - net book amount at 31 December 
2023  3,086  439  61,904  21,713  606  666  5,861  94,275 
Right-of-use assets - net book amount at 31 
December 2023b —  1,243  53  916  4  2,463  5,765  10,444 
Total PP&E - net book amount at 31 December 2023
 3,086  1,682  61,957  22,629  610  3,129  11,626  104,719 
Cost - owned PP&E
At 1 January 2022c 3,713  1,245  208,778  44,037  2,213  3,033  10,241  273,260 
Exchange adjustments  (184)  (30)  —  (599)  (83)  (14)  (590)  (1,500) 
Additions  51  31  6,221  2,188  252  42  993  9,778 
Acquisitions  1  40  —  998  —  37  3  1,079 
Transfers from intangible assets  —  —  357  —  —  —  —  357 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  (49)  —  (4,351)  (1,408)  —  —  —  (5,808) 
Deletions and disposals  (19)  (336)  (31,977)  (554)  (180)  (22)  (558)  (33,646) 
At 31 December 2022  3,513  950  179,028  44,662  2,202  3,076  10,089  243,520 
Depreciation - owned PP&E
At 1 January 2022c 706  654  135,294  21,841  1,774  2,388  5,783  168,440 
Exchange adjustments  (26)  (21)  —  (299)  (61)  (11)  (354)  (772) 
Charge for the year  47  26  9,770  1,457  135  72  501  12,008 
Impairment losses  6  14  1,251  1,487  —  4  336  3,098 
Impairment reversals  —  —  (2,221)  (65)  —  (5)  —  (2,291) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  (18)  —  (3,972)  (1,164)  —  —  —  (5,154) 
Deletions and disposals  (15)  (172)  (28,688)  (354)  (177)  (17)  (447)  (29,870) 
At 31 December 2022  700  501  111,434  22,903  1,671  2,431  5,819  145,459 
Owned PP&E - net book amount at 31 December 
2022  2,813  449  67,594  21,759  531  645  4,270  98,061 
Right-of-use assets - net book amount at 31 
December 2022b —  1,157  17  926  7  2,333  3,543  7,983 
Total PP&E - net book amount at 31 December 2022
 2,813  1,606  67,611  22,685  538  2,978  7,813  106,044 
Assets under construction included above
At 31 December 2023  13,390 
At 31 December 2022  22,313 
Depreciation charge for the year on right-of-use assets
2023  196  16  558  5  1,055  783  2,613 
2022  190  18  321  10  853  577  1,969 
aFor information on significant estimates and judgements made in relation to the estimation of oil and natural reserves see Property, plant and equipment within Note 1 .
b$661 million  (2022  $560 million ) of drilling rig right-of-use assets and $2,337 million  (2022  $2,208 million ) of shipping vessel right-of-use assets are included in Plant, machinery and equipment and 
Transportation respectively.
cAn amendment has been made to prior year balances to correctly present offsetting movements in oil and gas properties  (an increase of $744 million ) and fittings, fixtures and office equipment (a 
decrease of $18 million )  cost and depreciation. The amendment has no impact on reported profit or net book amounts of PPE.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 203

13. Capital commitments  
Authorized future capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment (excluding right-of-use assets) by group companies for which contracts had been 
signed at 31 December 2023  amounted to $10,354 million  (2022  $9,381 million , 2021  $8,208 million ). bp has contracted capital commitments amounting 
to $1,580 million  (2022  $1,764 million , 2021  $1,075 million ) in relation to joint ventures and $105 million  (2022  $18 million , 2021  $126 million ) in relation to 
associates . 
14. Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill  
2023 2022
Cost
At 1 January  12,577  12,991 
Exchange adjustments  184  (367) 
Acquisitions and other additions  415  573 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  —  (58) 
Deletions and disposals  —  (562) 
At 31 December  13,176  12,577 
Impairment losses
At 1 January  617  618 
Exchange adjustments  2  (1) 
Impairment losses for the year  85  — 
At 31 December  704  617 
Net book amount at 31 December  12,472  11,960 
Net book amount at 1 January  11,960  12,373 $ million
Impairment review of goodwill
$ million
Goodwill at 31 December 2023 2022
gas & low carbon energy  2,095  2,232 
oil production & operations  4,925  4,925 
customers & products  5,431  4,740 
other businesses & corporate  21  63 
 12,472  11,960 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the acquisition. For oil production & operations goodwill is allocated to CGUs in aggregate at the segment level, for gas & low carbon energy 
goodwill is allocated to the hydrocarbon CGUs within the segment. For customers and products, goodwill has been allocated to  Castrol, US Fuels, 
European Fuels , Archaea and Other.
For information on significant estimates and judgements made in relation to impairments see Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets and goodwill in Note 1 .
gas & low carbon energy and oil production & operations
$ million $ million
gas & low carbon energy oil production & operations
2023 2022 2023 2022
Goodwill  2,095  2,232  4,925  4,925 
Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount  5,886  12,971  18,854  36,045 
The table above shows the carrying amount of goodwill for the segments at the period end and the excess of the recoverable amount, based on a pre-tax 
value-in-use calculation, over the carrying amount (headroom) at the date of the most recent test. The decrease in headroom for both segments relates to 
movements due to the impacts of updates to price and discount rate assumptions.
No material i mpairment of the goodwill balances in either gas & low carbon energy or oil production & operations was recognized during 2023  (2022  $nil ).
204 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

14. Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill  – continued
The value in use for relevant CGUs in both gas & low carbon energy and oil production & operations is based on the cash flows expected to be generated 
by the projected production profiles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each field, based on appropriately risked estimates of reserves 
and resources. Midstream and supply and trading activities and equity-accounted entities are generally not included in the impairment reviews of goodwill, 
as they do not represent part of the grouping of CGUs to which the goodwill balances relate and which are used to monitor the goodwill balances for 
internal management purposes. Where such activities form part of wider CGUs to which goodwill relates they are reflected in the test. As the production 
profile and related cash flows can be estimated from bp’s past experience, management believes that the cash flows generated over the estimated life of 
field is the appropriate basis upon which to assess goodwill and individual assets for impairment in both gas & low carbon energy and oil & production 
operations. The estimated date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of 
hydrocarbons, the production profile of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, 
production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced. As each field has specific 
reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash flows of each field are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key 
assumptions agreed by bp management. 
Estimated production volumes and cash flows up to the date of cessation of production on a field-by-field basis, including operating and capital 
expenditure, are derived from the business segment plans. The production profiles used are consistent with the reserve and resource volumes approved as 
part of bp’s centrally controlled process for the estimation of proved and probable reserves and total resources.
The average production for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing in the gas & low carbon energy segment over the next 15 years  is 185 mmboe per 
year ( 2022  191 mmboe per year) and in the oil production and operations segment is 402 mmboe per year ( 2022  346 mmboe per year). Production 
assumptions used for the goodwill impairment tests in both gas & low carbon energy and oil production & operations reflect management’s best estimate 
of future production of the existing portfolio at the time of the calculation. The group’s expectation to reduce upstream hydrocarbon production by around 
25% by 2030 from its 2019 baseline is expected to be achieved through future active management, including divestments, and high-grading of the 
portfolio. Changes in upstream production since 2019 will be included in the best estimates however as the specific future changes to the portfolio are not 
yet known, these best estimates do not include the full extent of the expected upstream production reductions.
The weighted average pre-tax discount rate used in the review for the oil production & operations segment is 17% , and 11%  for the gas & low carbon 
energy segment ( 2022  16%  for the oil production & operations segment and 10%  for the gas & low carbon energy segment).
The most recent reviews for impairment for the oil production & operations and gas & low carbon energy segments were carried out in the fourth quarter. 
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate. The value-in-use 
calculations have been prepared for the purposes of determining whether the goodwill balances were impaired. Estimated future cash flows were prepared 
on the basis of certain assumptions prevailing at the time of the tests. The actual outcomes may differ from the assumptions made. For example, reserves 
and resources estimates and production forecasts are subject to revision as further technical information becomes available and economic conditions 
change. Due to economic developments, regulatory change and emissions reduction activity arising from climate concern and other factors, future 
commodity prices and other assumptions may differ from the forecasts used in the calculations.
Sensitivities to different variables have been estimated using certain simplifying assumptions. For example, lower oil and gas price or production 
sensitivities do not fully reflect the specific impacts for each contractual arrangement and will not capture all favourable impacts that may arise from cost 
deflation or savings. A detailed calculation in either segment at any given price or production profile may, therefore, produce a different result.
It is estimated that a 22%  (2022  27% ) reduction in revenue throughout each year of the remaining life of those assets, either as a result of adverse price or 
production conditions or a combination of each, would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-
current assets of the oil production and operations segment. For gas & low carbon energy an 15%  (2022  18% ) reduction would have the same result.
It is estimated that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill 
and related net non-current assets of either segment.
customers & products
$ million
2023 2022
Castrol US FuelsEuropean 
Fuels Archaea Other Total Castrol US FuelsEuropean 
Fuels Archaea Other Total
Goodwill  2,672  792  839  707  421  5,431  2,524  606  815  409  386  4,740 
Cash flows for each CGU are derived from the business segment plans, which cover a period of up to five years , except for Archaea where a business plan 
to 2035 is in place following the recent acquisition. To determine the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash flows for a period of 10 years  
(12 years  for Archaea), are discounted and aggregated with a terminal value. It is estimated that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions 
used in the US Fuels, European Fuels and Archaea goodwill impairment assessments would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying 
amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets.
Castrol
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Castrol unit is most sensitive are operating unit margins, sales volumes, and discount 
rate. Operating margin and sales volumes assumptions used in the detailed impairment review of goodwill calculation are consistent with the assumptions 
used in the Castrol unit’s business plan. A pre-tax discount rate of 9% (2022  8%) is applied in the test. No reasonably possible change in any of these key 
assumptions would cause the unit’s recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets. Cash flows 
beyond the plan period are extrapolated using a nominal 3.4%  (2022  3.4% ) growth rate.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 205

15. Intangible assets
$ million
2023 2022
Exploration 
and appraisal 
expenditureaBiogas rights 
agreementsOther 
intangibles TotalExploration 
and appraisal 
expenditureaBiogas rights 
agreementsOther 
intangibles Total
Cost
At 1 January  12,571  3,398  6,817  22,786  14,311  —  6,152  20,463 
Exchange adjustments  —  —  144  144  —  —  (216)  (216) 
Acquisitionsb —  —  130  130  —  3,398  194  3,592 
Remeasurements of acquisition accountingb —  (394)  —  (394)  —  —  —  — 
Additions  1,058  23  799  1,880  894  —  831  1,725 
Transfers to property, plant and equipment  (171)  —  —  (171)  (357)  —  —  (357) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  —  —  (6)  (6)  (9)  —  (7)  (16) 
Deletions and disposals  (383)  (38)  (767)  (1,188)  (2,268)  —  (137)  (2,405) 
At 31 December  13,075  2,989  7,117  23,181  12,571  3,398  6,817  22,786 
Amortization
At 1 January  8,358  —  4,228  12,586  10,022  —  3,990  14,012 
Exchange adjustments  —  —  79  79  —  —  (128)  (128) 
Exploration expenditure written off  746  —  —  746  385  —  —  385 
Charge for the year  —  106  642  748  —  —  491  491 
Impairment losses  20  —  77  97  2  —  21  23 
Impairment reversals  —  —  —  —  —  —  (3)  (3) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  —  —  (3)  (3)  (9)  —  (7)  (16) 
Deletions and disposals  (377)  (1)  (685)  (1,063)  (2,042)  —  (136)  (2,178) 
At 31 December  8,747  105  4,338  13,190  8,358  —  4,228  12,586 
Net book amount at 31 December  4,328  2,884  2,779  9,991  4,213  3,398  2,589  10,200 
Net book amount at 1 January  4,213  3,398  2,589  10,200  4,289  —  2,162  6,451 
aFor further information see Intangible assets within Note 1  and Note 8 .
b Primarily relates to the acquisition of Archaea Energy Inc. See Note 3 for further information.
16. Investments in joint ventures  
The following table provides aggregated summarized financial information for the group's joint ventures as it relates to the amounts recognized in the 
group income statement and on the group balance sheet.
$ million
Income statement Balance sheet
Earnings from joint ventures
 - after interest and taxInvestments in 
joint ventures
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Azule Energy  700  540  —  5,066  5,264 
Pan American Energy Group  —  538  (217)  —  2,000 
Other joint venturesa (633)  50  760  7,369  5,136 
 67  1,128  543  12,435  12,400 
a 2023 includes Pan American Energy Group as no longer considered material to the group post 2022 impairment.
The joint venture that is material to the group at 31 December 2023  is Azule Energy, which was formed during 2022 and in which bp owns a 50%  stake.
bp classifies its investment in Azule Energy Holdings Limited as a joint venture because, per the terms of the shareholders' agreements, bp has joint 
control over Azule Energy. Azule Energy Holdings Limited is based in Angola and its functional currency is USD.
Following the 2022 impairment of bp's investment in PAEG, this is no longer considered material to the group for 2023 and is now included with Other joint 
ventures.
The following table provides summarized financial information relating to Azule Energy for 2023 and 2022 and Pan American Energy Group for 2022 and 
2021. This information is presented on a 100% basis and reflects adjustments made by bp to Azule Energy and Pan American Energy Group’s own results 
in applying the equity method of accounting. bp adjusts Azule Energy Holdings Limited and Pan American Energy Group’s results for the accounting 
required under IFRS relating to bp’s purchase of its interests in Azule Energy Holdings Limited and Pan American Energy Group S.L..
The operational and financial information is based on preliminary operational and financial results of Azule Energy Holdings Limited for 2023 and 2022 and 
Pan American Energy Group S.L. for 2022 and 2021. Actual results may differ from these amounts - immaterial adjustments to the 2022 numbers for Azule 
Energy Holdings Limited have been included in the 2023 numbers and adjustments to the 2021 numbers for Pan America Energy Group S.L. have been 
included in the 2022 numbers.
206 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

16. Investments in joint ventures  – continued 
$ million
Gross amount
2023 2022 2021
Azule Energy Azule Energy PAEG PAEG
Sales and other operating revenues  5,164  2,274  6,408  4,394 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation  2,146  1,460  1,560  806 
Finance costs  400  218  376  262 
Profit (loss) before taxationa 1,746  1,242  1,184  544 
Taxationb 346  162  108  978 
Profit (loss) for the year  1,400  1,080  1,076  (434) 
Other comprehensive income  —  —  —  — 
Total comprehensive income  1,400  1,080  1,076  (434) 
Non-current assets  18,788  22,218  14,598 
Current assetsc 3,928  4,132  3,054 
Total assets  22,716  26,350  17,652 
Current liabilitiesd 2,510  2,594  1,996 
Non-current liabilitiese 10,074  13,228  5,856 
Total liabilities  12,584  15,822  7,852 
Net assets  10,132  10,528  9,800 
Less: non-controlling interests  —  —  — 
 10,132  10,528  9,800 
aAzule Energy includes depreciation and amortisation of $2,768 million  (2022  $1,145 million ), interest income of $nil (2022  $11 million ) and interest expense of $407 million  (2022  $218 million ). For 2022 
and 2021 PAEG includes depreciation and amortisation of $1,039 million  and $930 million  respectively, interest income of $29 million  and $19 million  respectively and interest expense of $375 million  and 
$262 million  respectively.
bPAEG 2021 net income expense includes a deferred tax charge of $415 million  related to a change in the income tax rate.
cAzule Energy includes cash and cash equivalents of $603 million  (2022  $1,031 million ). PAEG includes cash and cash equivalents of $1,012 million  for 2022.
dAzule Energy includes current financial liabilities of $2,409 million  (2022  $2,077 million ). PAEG includes current financial liabilities of $751 million  for 2022.
eAzule Energy includes non-current financial liabilities of $4,735 million  (2022  $4,700 million ). PAEG includes non-current financial liabilities of $2,151 million  for 2022 .
The group received dividends  of $708 million  from Azule Energy Holdings Limited in 2023  (2022  $500 million ).
The group received dividends of $35 million  and $nil from Pan American Energy Group S.L in 2022 and 2021 respectively.
The following table provides aggregated summarized financial information relating to the group’s share of joint ventures.
$ million
bp share
2023 2022 2021
Azule 
Energy Other TotalAzule 
Energy PAEG Other Total PAEG Other Total
Sales and other operating revenues  2,582  13,705  16,287  1,137  3,204  9,770  14,111  2,197  9,048  11,245 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation
 1,073  8  1,081  730  780  255  1,765  403  927  1,330 
Finance costs  200  421  621  109  188  137  434  131  58  189 
Profit (loss) before taxation  873  (413)  460  621  592  118  1,331  272  869  1,141 
Taxation  173  219  392  81  54  67  202  489  107  596 
Non-controlling interest  —  1  1  —  —  1  1  —  2  2 
Profit (loss) for the year  700  (633)  67  540  538  50  1,128  (217)  760  543 
Other comprehensive income  —  45  45  —  —  50  50  —  5  5 
Total comprehensive income  700  (588)  112  540  538  100  1,178  (217)  765  548 
Non-current assets  9,394  16,505  25,899  11,109  7,299  7,775  26,183 
Current assets  1,964  4,387  6,351  2,066  1,527  2,778  6,371 
Total assets  11,358  20,892  32,250  13,175  8,826  10,553  32,554 
Current liabilities  1,255  2,992  4,247  1,297  998  1,713  4,008 
Non-current liabilities  5,037  7,505  12,542  6,614  2,928  3,687  13,229 
Total liabilities  6,292  10,497  16,789  7,911  3,926  5,400  17,237 
Net assets  5,066  10,395  15,461  5,264  4,900  5,153  15,317 
Less: non-controlling interests  —  (15)  (15)  —  —  (13)  (13) 
 5,066  10,380  15,446  5,264  4,900  5,140  15,304 
Group investment in joint ventures
Group share of net assets (as above)
 5,066  10,380  15,446  5,264  4,900  5,140  15,304 
Cumulative impairment charge  —  (3,007)  (3,007)  —  (2,900)  —  (2,900) 
Loans made by group companies to joint 
ventures  —  (4)  (4)  —  —  (4)  (4) 
 5,066  7,369  12,435  5,264  2,000  5,136  12,400 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 207

16. Investments in joint ventures  – continued  
Transactions between the group and its joint ventures are summarized below.
$ million
Sales to joint ventures 2023 2022 2021
Product SalesAmount 
receivable at 
31 December SalesAmount 
receivable at 
31 December SalesAmount 
receivable at 
31 December
LNG, crude oil and oil products, natural gas  3,585  501  4,212  316  3,923  292 
Purchases from joint ventures 2023 2022 2021
Product PurchasesAmount 
payable at 
31 December PurchasesAmount 
payable at 
31 December PurchasesAmount 
payable at 
31 December
LNG, crude oil and oil products, natural gas, refinery operating 
costs, plant processing fees  3,328  427  1,893  574  716  93 
In the normal course of business, bp enters into various arm’s length transactions with joint ventures including fixed price commitments to sell and to 
purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts and agency agreements.
The terms of the outstanding balances receivable from joint ventures are typically 30 to 45 days . The balances are unsecured and will be settled in cash. 
There are no significant provisions for doubtful debts relating to these balances and no significant expense recognized in the income statement in respect 
of bad or doubtful debts. Dividends receivable are not included in the table above.
The majority of sales to joint ventures in 2023  relate to heating oil, gasoline, diesel and lubricant product transactions with Mobene and Ocwen Energy. The 
majority of purchases from joint ventures in 2023  relate to crude oil and oil products transactions with Azule Energy.
The bp investment in Pan American Energy Group S.L. joint venture had an impairment charge in 2022  of $2,900 million  as a result of expected portfolio 
changes.
bp's share of net impairment charges recognized by joint ventures in 2023  was  $1,285 million  (2022  $256 million  charge and 2021  reversals of $214 
million ) of which $1,152 million  charge ( 2022  $276 million  and 2021  $nil) was in the gas and low carbon energy segment and $133 million  charge ( 2022  
$20 million  reversals and 2021  reversals of $214 million ) was in the oil production & operations segment. The 2023 charges in the gas and low carbon 
energy segment principally relate to the group's US offshore wind investments. The project assets were measured at fair value less costs of disposal 
following the rejection in October 2023 of requests to renegotiate the power purchase agreements associated with three wind farms off the coast of New 
York (Empire Wind 1 and 2, Beacon Wind 1) and the announcement in January 2024 that bp and Equinor will restructure those investments. Subject to 
approvals, bp will assume full ownership of the Beacon projects and Equinor the Empire projects. 
17. Investments in associates
The following table provides aggregated summarized financial information for the group’s associates as it relates to the amounts recognized in the group 
income statement and on the group balance sheet. There were no individually material associates to the Group at 31 December 2023 . The associate which 
was material to the Group at 31 December 2021  was Rosneft. At 31 December 2021  bp classified its investment in Rosneft as an associate because, in 
management's judgement, bp had significant influence over Rosneft. On 27 February 2022, bp announced it would exit its shareholding in Rosneft and bp's 
two nominated Rosneft directors both stepped down from Rosneft's board. As a result, the significant judgement on significant influence over Rosneft was 
reassessed. Since the first quarter 2022, bp accounts for its interest in Rosneft and its other businesses with Rosneft within Russia, as financial assets 
measured at fair value within ‘Other investments’. For further information see Note 1  Significant judgements and estimate: investment in Rosneft .
$ million
Income statement Balance sheet
Earnings from associates
 - after interest and taxInvestments in 
associates
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Rosneft  —  528  2,694  —  — 
Other associates  831  874  762  7,814  8,201 
 831  1,402  3,456  7,814  8,201 
The group recognized dividends, net of withholding tax, of $nil from Rosneft in 2023  (2022  $nil and 2021  $640 million ).
208 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

17. Investments in associates  – continued  
The following table provides summarized financial information relating to Rosneft for 2021. This information is presented on a 100% basis and reflects 
adjustments made by bp to Rosneft’s own results in applying the equity method of accounting. bp adjusted Rosneft’s results for the accounting required 
under IFRS relating to bp’s purchase of its interest in Rosneft and the amortization of the deferred gain relating to the disposal of bp’s interest in TNK-BP. 
$ million
Gross amount
2021
Sales and other operating revenues  118,755 
Profit before interest and taxation  18,537 
Finance costs  1,357 
Profit (loss) before taxation  17,180 
Taxation  3,209 
Non-controlling interests  1,743 
Profit (loss) for the year  12,228 
Other comprehensive income  54 
Total comprehensive income  12,282 
Summarized financial information for the group’s share of associates is shown below.
$ million
bp share
2023 2022 2021
Total Total Rosneft Other Total 
Sales and other operating revenues  11,396  14,841  26,163  10,005  36,168 
Profit before interest and taxation  2,279  3,053  4,084  1,602  5,686 
Finance costs  41  73  299  73  372 
Profit (loss) before taxation  2,238  2,980  3,785  1,529  5,314 
Taxation  1,407  1,498  707  767  1,474 
Non-controlling interests  —  80  384  —  384 
Profit (loss) for the year  831  1,402  2,694  762  3,456 
Other comprehensive income  (237)  352  12  27  39 
Total comprehensive income  594  1,754  2,706  789  3,495 
Non-current assets  11,483  11,993 
Current assets  3,776  3,368 
Total assets  15,259  15,361 
Current liabilities  3,003  2,936 
Non-current liabilities  4,473  4,255 
Total liabilities  7,476  7,191 
Net assets  7,783  8,170 
Less: non-controlling interests  —  — 
 7,783  8,170 
Group investment in associates
Group share of net assets (as above)  7,783  8,170 
Loans made by group companies to associates  31  31 
 7,814  8,201 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 209

17. Investments in associates  – continued  
Transactions between the group and its associates are summarized below.
$ million
Sales to associates 2023 2022 2021
Product SalesAmount 
receivable at 
31 December SalesAmount 
receivable at 
31 December SalesAmount 
receivable at 
31 December
LNG, crude oil and oil products, natural gas  1,009  368  1,042  417  852  201 
$ million
Purchases from associates 2023 2022 2021
Product PurchasesAmount 
payable at 
31 December PurchasesAmount 
payable at 
31 December PurchasesAmount 
payable at 
31 December
Crude oil and oil products, natural gas, transportation tariff  5,473  2,607  6,199  2,086  7,683  2,072 
In the normal course of business, bp enters into various arm’s length transactions with associates including fixed price commitments to sell and to 
purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts and agency agreements.
The terms of the outstanding balances receivable from associates are typically 30 to 45 days . The balances are unsecured and will be settled in cash. 
There are no significant provisions for doubtful debts relating to these balances and no significant expense recognized in the income statement in respect 
of bad or doubtful debts. Dividends receivable are not included in the table above.
The majority of purchases from associates in 2023 and 2022 relate to crude oil and oil products transactions with Aker BP. The majority of purchases from 
associates in 2021 relate to crude oil and oil products transactions with Rosneft. Sales to associates are related to various entities.
bp has commitments amounting to $8,615 million  (2022  $8,488 million ), primarily in relation to contracts with its associates for the purchase of 
transportation capacity. For information on capital commitments in relation to associates see Note 13 .
bp's share of impairment charges taken by associates in 2023 was $nil (2022  $nil).
18. Other investments
$ million
2023 2022
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Equity investmentsa —  1,177  —  1,040 
Contingent consideration  754  939  364  1,522 
Other  89  73  214  108 
 843  2,189  578  2,670 
aThe ma jority of equity investm ents are unlisted.
Contingent consideration relates to amounts arising on disposals which are financial assets classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss. The 
fair value is determined using an estimate of discounted future cash flows that are expected to be received and is considered a level 3 valuation under the 
fair value hierarchy. Future cash flows are estimated based on inputs including oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and operating costs related 
to the disposed operations. The discount rate used is based on a risk-free rate adjusted for asset-specific risks. The contingent consideration principally 
relates to the disposal of our  Alaskan business .
19. Inventories
$ million
2023 2022
Crude oil  3,227  3,608 
Natural gas  410  825 
Emissions allowances  464  436 
Refined petroleum and petrochemical products  7,413  7,920 
 11,514  12,789 
Trading inventories  9,850  14,004 
 21,364  26,793 
Supplies  1,455  1,288 
 22,819  28,081 
Cost of inventories expensed in the income statement  119,307  141,043 
The inventory valuation at 31 December 2023  is stated net of a provision of $497 million  (2022  $483 million ) to write down inventories to their net 
realizable value, of which $310 million  (2022  $195 million ) relates to hydrocarbon inventories. The net charge  to the income statement in the year in 
respect of inventory net realizable value provisions was $87 million  (2022  $199 million  charge ), of which $112 million  charge  (2022  $137 million  charge ) 
related to hydrocarbon inventories. 
Trading inventories are valued using quoted benchmark prices adjusted as appropriate for location and quality differentials. They are predominantly 
categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy .
210 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

20. Trade and other receivables
$ million
2023 2022
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Financial assets
Trade receivables  25,175  652  28,229  12 
Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates  843  26  654  79 
Other receivables  3,936  722  3,953  608 
 29,954  1,400  32,836  699 
Non-financial assets
Sales taxes and production taxes  1,028  355  1,037  379 
Other receivables  141  12  137  14 
 1,169  367  1,174  393 
 31,123  1,767  34,010  1,092 
In both 2023 and 2022 the group entered into non-recourse arrangements to discount certain receivables in support of supply and trading activities and 
the management of credit risk.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing. 
See Note 29  for further information.
21. Valuation and qualifying accounts
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Trade and 
other 
receivablesFixed asset
investmentsTrade and 
other 
receivablesFixed asset
investmentsTrade and 
other 
receivablesFixed asset
investments
At 1 January  636  3,050  584  169  555  186 
Charged to costs and expenses  866  176  143  17,471  136  3 
Charged to other accountsa 1  (1)  (8)  (27)  (11)  — 
Deductions  (79)  (42)  (83)  (41)  (96)  (20) 
Reclassifications  —  —  —  (14,522)  —  — 
At 31 December  1,424  3,183  636  3,050  584  169 
a Principally exchange adjustments.
Valuation and qualifying accounts relating to trade and other receivables comprise expected credit loss allowances. The expected credit loss allowance 
comprises $1,301 million  (2022  $513 million , 2021  $456 million ) relating to receivables that were credit-impaired at the end of the year and $123 million  
(2022  $123 million , 2021  $128 million ) relating to receivables that were not credit-impaired at the end of the year. 
Valuation and qualifying accounts relating to fixed asset investments comprise impairment provisions for investments in equity-accounted entities. The 
amount charged to costs and expenses in 2022 principally relates to bp’s investments in Rosneft and Pan American Energy Group S.L.. Amounts related to 
bp’s investments in Rosneft and other businesses with Rosneft within Russia were reclassified in 2022 following bp’s loss of significant influence. 
Valuation and qualifying accounts are deducted in the balance sheet from the assets to which they apply. For further information on the group's credit risk 
management policies and how the group recognizes and measures expected losses see Note 29 .Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 211

22. Trade and other payables  
$ million
2023 2022
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Financial liabilities
Trade payables  42,406  —  47,210  — 
Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates  3,034  —  2,660  — 
Payables for capital expenditure and acquisitions  3,063  305  2,579  446 
Payables related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill  1,130  7,602  1,213  8,350 
Other payables  7,313  663  5,995  1,133 
 56,946  8,570  59,657  9,929 
Non-financial liabilities
Sales taxes, customs duties, production taxes and social security  2,264  134  2,361  124 
Other payables  1,945  1,372  1,966  334 
 4,209  1,506  4,327  458 
 61,155  10,076  63,984  10,387 
Materially all of bp's trade payables have payment terms of less than 60 days and give rise to operating cash flows.
Trade and other payables, other than those relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, are predominantly interest free. See Note 29  (c) for further information.
Payables related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill include amounts payable under the 2016 consent decree and settlement agreement with the United States 
and five Gulf coast states, including amounts payable for natural resource damages, state claims and Clean Water Act penalties. On a discounted basis the 
amounts included in payables related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill for these elements of the agreements are $3,782 million  payable over 9 years, 
$2,098 million  payable over 10 years and $2,812 million  payable over 9 years respectively at 31 December 2023 . Reported within net cash provided by 
operating activities in the group cash flow statement is a net cash outflow of $1,280 million  (2022  outflow of $1,370 million , 2021  outflow of $1,484 
million ) related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, which includes payments made in relation to these agreements. For full details of these agreements, see bp 
Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 - Legal Proceedings.
Payables related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill at 31 December 2023  also include amounts payable for settled economic loss and property damage claims 
which are payable over a period of up to four years.
23. Provisions  
$ million
Decommissioning EnvironmentalLitigation and 
claims Emissions Other Total
At 1 January 2023  12,343  1,721  779  5,062  1,419  21,324 
Exchange adjustments  129  6  —  29  25  189 
Acquisitions  5  33  2  —  —  40 
New and increase in existing provisionsa 915  228  147  2,347  718  4,355 
Write-back of unused provisionsa (3)  (51)  (15)  (710)  (261)  (1,040) 
Unwinding of discountb 418  55  19  —  12  504 
Change in discount rate  (921)  (41)  (23)  —  (6)  (991) 
Utilization  (70)  (307)  (173)  (3,703)  (491)  (4,744) 
Reclassified to other payables  (444)  (29)  —  —  —  (473) 
Reclassified as liabilities directly associated with 
assets held for sale  —  (1)  (9)  —  —  (10) 
Deletions  —  —  —  —  (15)  (15) 
At 31 December 2023  12,372  1,614  727  3,025  1,401  19,139 
Of which – current  637  371  111  2,807  492  4,418 
  – non-current  11,735  1,243  616  218  909  14,721 
aRecognized in the Group income statement, other than changes in decommissioning provisions related to owned assets.
bRecognized in the Group income statement.
The decommissioning provision primarily comprises the future cost of decommissioning oil and natural gas wells, facilities and related pipelines. The 
environmental provision includes provisions for costs related to the control, abatement, clean-up or elimination of environmental pollution relating to soil, 
groundwater, surface water and sediment contamination. The litigation and claims category includes provisions for matters related to, for example, 
commercial disputes, product liability, and allegations of exposures of third parties to toxic substances. Emissions provisions primarily relate to obligations 
under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Renewable Fuel Standard Program and are driven by the amount of the obligations outstanding and 
current price of the related credits. The provision will principally be settled through allowances already held as inventory in the group balance sheet.
For information on significant estimates and judgements made in relation to provisions, see Provisions and contingencies within Note 1 .
Gulf of Mexico oil spill
The group has recognized certain assets, payables and provisions and incurs certain residual costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill that occurred in 
2010. For further information see Notes 7, 22, 29, 33. The litigation and claims provision presented in the table above includes the latest estimate for the 
remaining costs associated with the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The amounts payable may differ from the amount provided and the timing of payments is 
uncertain.
212 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  
Most group companies have pension plans, the forms and benefits of which vary with conditions and practices in the countries concerned. Pension 
benefits may be provided through defined contribution plans (money purchase schemes) or defined benefit plans (final salary and other types of schemes 
with committed pension benefit payments). For defined contribution plans, retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from 
contributions paid in respect of each employee. For defined benefit plans, retirement benefits are based on such factors as an employee’s pensionable 
salary and length of service. Defined benefit plans may be funded or unfunded. The assets of funded plans are generally held in separately administered 
trusts.
For information on significant estimates and judgements made in relation to accounting for these plans see Pensions and other post-retirement benefits in 
Note 1 .
The pension obligation in the UK consists primarily of a funded final salary pension plan under which retired employees draw the majority of their benefit 
as an annuity. This pension plan is governed by a corporate trustee whose board is composed of four member-nominated directors, four company-
nominated directors, one independent director and one independent chair nominated by the company. The trustee board is required by law to act in the 
best interests of the plan participants and is responsible for setting certain policies, such as investment policies of the plan. This plan was closed to new 
joiners in 2010 and was closed to future accrual on 30 June 2021.
Employees in the UK are eligible for membership of a defined contribution plan.
In the US, all pension benefits now accrue under a cash balance formula. Benefits previously accrued under final salary formulas are legally protected. 
Retiring US employees typically take their pension benefit in the form of a lump sum payment upon retirement. The plan is funded and its assets are 
overseen by a fiduciary Investment Committee. During 2023  the committee was composed of six bp employees appointed by the president of bp 
Corporation North America Inc. (the appointing officer). The Investment Committee is required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants 
and is responsible for setting certain policies, such as the investment policies of the plan. US employees are also eligible to participate in a defined 
contribution (401k) plan in which employee contributions are matched with company contributions.
In the US, group companies also provide post-retirement healthcare to eligible retired employees and their dependants (and, in certain legacy cases, life 
insurance coverage); the entitlement to these benefits is based on the date of hire, the employee remaining in service until a specified age and completion 
of a minimum period of service.
In the Eurozone, there are defined benefit pension plans in Germany, France, the Netherlands and other countries. In Germany and France, the majority of 
the pensions are unfunded. In Germany, the group’s largest Eurozone plan, employees receive a pension and also have a choice to supplement their core 
pension through salary sacrifice. For employees who joined since 2002, the core pension benefit is a career average plan with retirement benefits based on 
such factors as an employee’s pensionable salary and length of service. The returns on the notional contributions made by both the company and 
employees are based on the interest rate which is set out in German tax law. Retired German employees take their pension benefit typically in the form of 
an annuity. The German plans are governed by legal agreements between bp and the works council or between bp and the trade union.
The level of contributions to funded defined benefit plans is the amount needed to provide adequate funds to meet pension obligations as they fall due. 
During 2023  the aggregate level of contributions was  $42 million  (2022  $74 million  and 2021  $274 million ). The aggregate level of contributions in 2024  is 
expected to be approximately $150 million  and includes contributions in all countries that we expect to be required to make contributions by law or under 
contractual agreements, as well as an allowance for discretionary funding.
For the primary UK plan there is a funding agreement between the group and the trustee. On a three year cycle a schedule of contributions is agreed 
covering the next five years . The schedule of contributions is next scheduled to be updated after the 31 December 2023 formal actuari al valuation.  No 
contractually committed funding was due at 31 December 2023 . The closure of the defined benefit plan to future accrual reduces the need for funding and 
the plan's expected future funding volatility.
The surplus relating to the primary UK pension plan is recognized on the balance sheet on the basis that the company is entitled to a refund of any 
remaining assets once all members have left the plan. 
Minimum pension funding in the US is determined by legislation and is supplemented by discretionary contributions. No contributions were made into the 
US pension plan in 2023  and no statutory funding requirement is expected in the next 12 months.
The surplus relating to the US pension fund is recognized on the balance sheet on the basis that economic benefit can be gained from the surplus through 
a reduction in future contributions.
There was no minimum funding requirement for the US plan, and no significant minimum funding requirements in other countries at 31 December 2023 .
The obligation and cost of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits is assessed annually using the projected unit credit method. The date of 
the most recent actuarial review was 31 December 2023 . The UK plans are subject to a formal actuarial valuation every three years; valuations are required 
more frequently in many other countries. The most recent formal actuarial valuation of the primary UK pension plan was as at 31 December 2020; the 31 
December 2023 valuation is currently underway . A valuation of the US plan and largest Eurozone plans are carried out annually.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 213

24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  – continued
The material financial assumptions used to estimate the benefit obligations of the various plans are set out below. The assumptions are reviewed by 
management at the end of each year and are used to evaluate the accrued benefit obligation at 31 December and pension expense for the following year.
%
Financial assumptions used to determine benefit obligationaUK US Eurozone
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Discount rate for plan liabilities  4.8  5.0  1.8  5.0  5.2  2.7  3.6  4.2  1.3 
Rate of increase for pensions in payment  2.8  2.9  3.2  —  —  —  2.1  1.8  1.4 
Rate of increase in deferred pensions  2.8  2.9  3.2  —  —  —  0.7  0.6  0.4 
Inflation for plan liabilities  3.0  3.1  3.3  2.0  2.0  2.1  2.4  2.1  1.6 
         %
Financial assumptions used to determine benefit expenseUK US Eurozone
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Discount rate for plan service costbN/A N/A  1.5  5.2  2.8  2.4  4.3  1.7  1.4 
Discount rate for plan other finance expensec 5.0  1.8  1.7  5.2  2.7  2.2  4.2  1.3  1.0 
Inflation for plan service costbN/A N/A  2.8  2.0  2.1  1.7  2.1  1.6  1.5 
aSalary growth has not been a material financial assumption for the Group following the closure of the primary pension plan to future accrual in 2021.
bUK discount rate and inflation rate assumptions are not significant in determining the benefit expense following the closure of the primary UK plan to future accrual in 2021. Rates for the remaining small 
worldwide plan administered/reported through the UK are 5.0%  (2022 2.5% ) and 1.9%  (2022 2.2% ) respectively.
cThe discount rate for plan other finance expense in 2021 was 1.4%  for the primary UK plan for the period before the plan closed to future accrual on 30th June 2021 and 1.9%  thereafter.
The discount rate assumptions are based on third-party AA corporate bond indices and for our largest plans in the UK, US and the Eurozone we use yields 
that reflect the maturity profile of the expected benefit payments. The inflation rate assumptions for our UK and US plans are based on the difference 
between the yields on index-linked and fixed-interest long-term government bonds. In other countries, including the Eurozone, we use this approach, or 
advice from the local actuary depending on the information available. The inflation assumptions are used to determine the rate of increase for pensions in 
payment and the rate of increase in deferred pensions where there is such an increase. 
In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the demographic and mortality assumptions. The mortality assumptions reflect best practice 
in the countries in which we provide pensions and have been chosen with regard to applicable published tables adjusted where appropriate to reflect the 
experience of the group and an extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.  bp’s most substantial pension liabilities are in the UK, the US 
and the Eurozone where our mortality assumptions are as follows:
Years
Mortality assumptions UK US Eurozone
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently 
aged 60  27.4  26.9  26.9  25.0  25.0  24.9  26.1  26.0  25.8 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently 
aged 40  29.2  28.5  28.4  26.7  26.6  26.6  28.6  28.5  28.3 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently 
aged 60  29.2  28.8  28.9  28.1  28.0  27.9  29.3  29.3  29.1 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently 
aged 40  30.6  30.6  30.5  29.6  29.5  29.4  31.6  31.4  31.2 
Pension plan assets are generally held in trusts, the primary objective of which is to accumulate assets sufficient to meet the obligations of the plans. The 
assets of the trusts are invested in a manner consistent with fiduciary obligations and principles that reflect current practices in portfolio management.
A proportion of the assets are held in equities, which are expected to generate a higher level of return over the long term, with an acceptable level of risk. In 
order to provide reasonable assurance that no single security or type of security has an unwarranted impact on the total portfolio, the investment portfolios 
are highly diversified.
The trustee’s long-term investment objective for the primary UK plan as it matures is to invest in assets whose value changes in the same way as the plan 
liabilities, in order to reduce the level of funding risk. To move towards this objective, the UK plan uses a liability driven investment (LDI) approach for part 
of the portfolio, investing primarily in government bonds to achieve this matching effect for the most significant plan liability assumptions of interest rate 
and inflation rate. This is partly funded by short-term sale and repurchase agreements, whereby the plan borrows money using existing bonds as security 
and which will be bought back at a specified price at an agreed future date. The funds raised are used to invest in further bonds to increase the proportion 
of assets which match the plan liabilities. The borrowings are shown separately in the analysis of pension plan assets in the table below.
For the primary UK pension plan there is an agreement with the trustee to increase the proportion of assets with liability matching characteristics over time 
primarily by reducing the proportion of plan assets held as equities and increasing the proportion held as bonds. There is a similar agreement in place for 
the primary US plan. During 2023 , the asset allocation policy of the UK plan switched 2% of plan assets from equities to bonds ( 2022  2%). The US asset 
allocation policy remained consistent .
The current asset allocation policy for the major plans at 31 December 2023  was as follows:
UK US
Asset category % %
Total equity (including private equity)  8  19 
Bonds/cash (including LDI)  85  81 
Property/real estate  7  — 
214 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  – continued
The amounts invested under the LDI programme by the primary UK pension plan as at 31 December 2023  were $6,215 million  (2022  $3,981 million ) of 
government-issued nominal bonds and $13,177 million  (2022  $11,945 million ) of index-linked bonds.
Some of the group’s pension plans in the Eurozone and other countries use derivative financial instruments as part of their asset mix to manage the level 
of risk. The fair value of these instruments is included in other assets in the table below. 
The group’s main pension plans do not invest directly in either securities or property/real estate of the company or of any subsidiary.
The fair values of the various categories of assets held by the defined benefit plans at 31 December are presented in the table below, including the effects 
of derivative financial instruments. Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year are shown in detail in the table on page 216 .
$ million
 UKaUSbEurozone Other Total
Fair value of pension plan assets
At 31 December 2023
Listed equities – developed markets  862  97  333  232  1,524 
   – emerging markets  28  12  51  66  157 
Private equityc 2,022  1,014  —  2  3,038 
Government issued nominal bondsd 6,285  1,457  746  285  8,773 
Government issued index-linked bondsd 13,177  —  88  —  13,265 
Corporate bondsd 6,144  2,802  605  166  9,717 
Propertye 2,437  —  92  17  2,546 
Cash  453  59  82  85  679 
Otherf 1,123  33  55  391  1,602 
Debt (repurchase agreements) used to fund liability driven investments  (6,485)  —  —  —  (6,485) 
 26,046  5,474  2,052  1,244  34,816 
At 31 December 2022
Listed equities – developed markets  1,252  127  299  213  1,891 
   – emerging markets  117  17  48  71  253 
Private equityc 2,715  1,126  —  2  3,843 
Government issued nominal bondsd 4,039  1,370  682  263  6,354 
Government issued index-linked bondsd 11,945  —  79  —  12,024 
Corporate bondsd 6,317  2,569  563  146  9,595 
Propertye 2,297  —  89  18  2,404 
Cash  567  175  61  116  919 
Otherf 1,088  33  56  357  1,534 
Debt (repurchase agreements) used to fund liability driven investments  (5,290)  —  —  —  (5,290) 
 25,047  5,417  1,877  1,186  33,527 
At 31 December 2021
Listed equities – developed markets  2,964  340  473  290  4,067 
   – emerging markets  252  45  67  76  440 
Private equityc 3,233  1,537  —  3  4,773 
Government issued nominal bondsd 7,491  2,606  974  432  11,503 
Government issued index-linked bondsd 24,516  —  100  —  24,616 
Corporate bondsd 10,128  2,475  689  498  13,790 
Propertye 2,714  —  110  22  2,846 
Cash  1,136  116  54  69  1,375 
Other  1,133  54  70  22  1,279 
Debt (repurchase agreements) used to fund liability driven investments  (10,723)  —  —  —  (10,723) 
 42,844  7,173  2,537  1,412  53,966 
aBonds held by the UK pension plans are denominated in sterling or hedged back to sterling to minimize foreign currency exposure. Property held by the UK pension plans is in the United Kingdom.
bBonds held by the US pension plans are denominated in US dollars or hedged back to USD to minimize foreign currency exposure.
cPrivate equity is valued at fair value based on the most recent transaction price or third-party net asset, revenue or earnings based valuations that generally result in the use of significant unobservable 
inputs.
dBonds held by pension plans are predominantly valued using observable market data based inputs other than quoted market prices in active markets.
eProperties are valued based on an analysis of recent market transactions supported by market knowledge derived from third-party professional valuers that generally result in the use of significant 
unobservable inputs.
fOther includes insurance policies arising from annuity buy-in in Canada amounting to $374 million .Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 215

24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  – continued
$ million
2023
UK US Eurozone Other Total
Analysis of the amount charged to profit or loss
Current service costa 44  156  47  21  268 
Past service costb 4  —  5  (2)  7 
Settlementb —  —  —  3  3 
Operating charge (credit) relating to defined benefit plans  48  156  52  22  278 
Payments to defined contribution plans  132  158  7  36  333 
Total operating charge (credit)  180  314  59  58  611 
Interest income on plan assetsa (1,259)  (274)  (78)  (56)  (1,667) 
Interest on plan liabilities  869  297  194  66  1,426 
Other finance (income) expense  (390)  23  116  10  (241) 
Analysis of the amount recognized in other comprehensive income
Actual asset return less interest income on plan assets  (677)  45  82  28  (522) 
Change in financial assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities  (649)  28  (508)  (24)  (1,153) 
Change in demographic assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities  (230)  (5)  8  —  (227) 
Experience gains and losses arising on the plan liabilities  (320)  45  (84)  (1)  (360) 
Remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income  (1,876)  113  (502)  3  (2,262) 
Movements in benefit obligation during the year
Benefit obligation at 1 January  17,480  5,880  4,799  1,343  29,502 
Exchange adjustments  1,056  —  215  30  1,301 
Operating charge relating to defined benefit plans  48  156  52  22  278 
Interest cost  869  297  194  66  1,426 
Contributions by plan participants  6  —  2  5  13 
Benefit payments (funded plans)c (1,071)  (262)  (79)  (81)  (1,493) 
Benefit payments (unfunded plans)c (8)  (166)  (230)  (25)  (429) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  —  —  —  (14)  (14) 
Remeasurements  1,199  (68)  584  25  1,740 
Benefit obligation at 31 Decembera d 19,579  5,837  5,537  1,371  32,324 
Movements in fair value of plan assets during the year
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January  25,047  5,417  1,877  1,186  33,527 
Exchange adjustments  1,462  —  81  39  1,582 
Interest income on plan assetsa e 1,259  274  78  56  1,667 
Contributions by plan participants  6  —  2  5  13 
Contributions by employers (funded plans)  20  —  11  11  42 
Benefit payments (funded plans)c (1,071)  (262)  (79)  (81)  (1,493) 
Remeasurementse (677)  45  82  28  (522) 
Fair value of plan assets at 31 Decemberf 26,046  5,474  2,052  1,244  34,816 
Surplus (deficit) at 31 December  6,467  (363)  (3,485)  (127)  2,492 
Represented by
Asset recognized  6,631  1,133  120  64  7,948 
Liability recognized  (164)  (1,496)  (3,605)  (191)  (5,456) 
 6,467  (363)  (3,485)  (127)  2,492 
The surplus (deficit) may be analysed between funded and unfunded plans as follows
Funded  6,631  1,133  104  29  7,897 
Unfunded  (164)  (1,496)  (3,589)  (156)  (5,405) 
 6,467  (363)  (3,485)  (127)  2,492 
The defined benefit obligation may be analysed between funded and unfunded plans as follows
Funded  (19,415)  (4,341)  (1,948)  (1,215)  (26,919) 
Unfunded  (164)  (1,496)  (3,589)  (156)  (5,405) 
 (19,579)  (5,837)  (5,537)  (1,371)  (32,324) 
aThe costs of managing plan investments are offset against the investment return, the costs of administering pension plan benefits are generally included in current service cost and the costs of 
administering other post-retirement benefit plans are included in the benefit obligation. Following the closure of the primary UK pension plan to future accrual, current service cost in the UK consists of 
$34 million  of costs of administering that plan and $10 million  of current service cost from the remaining small worldwide plans administered and reported through the UK.
bPast service costs predominantly represent largely offsetting income and costs due to the removal of some benefits for members in Turkish plans and their replacement with new arrangements 
administered and reported through the UK. There was also a $5 million  past service cost in France relating to statutory retirement age changes. Settlements represent charges for special termination 
benefits arising as a result of early retirements .
cThe benefit payments amount shown above comprises $1,858 million  benefits and $10 million  settlements, plus $54 million  of plan expenses incurred in the administration of the benefit.
dThe benefit obligation for the US is made up of $4,527 million  for pension liabilities and $1,310 million  for other post-retirement benefit liabilities (which are unfunded and are primarily retiree medical 
liabilities). The benefit obligation for the Eurozone includes $3,393 million  for pension liabilities in Germany which is largely unfunded.
eThe actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the interest income on plan assets and the remeasurement of plan assets as disclosed above.
fThe fair value of plan assets includes borrowings related to the LDI programme as described on page 214 .
216 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  – continued
$ million
2022
UK US Eurozone Other Total
Analysis of the amount charged to profit or loss
Current service costa 41  219  87  25  372 
Past service costb 23  —  (1)  (21)  1 
Settlementb (8)  —  —  (4)  (12) 
Operating charge (credit) relating to defined benefit plans  56  219  86  —  361 
Payments to defined contribution plans  110  132  6  36  284 
Total operating charge (credit)  166  351  92  36  645 
Interest income on plan assetsa (694)  (189)  (34)  (44)  (961) 
Interest on plan liabilities  529  217  85  61  892 
Other finance (income) expense  (165)  28  51  17  (69) 
Analysis of the amount recognized in other comprehensive income
Actual asset return less interest income on plan assets  (12,955)  (1,581)  (507)  (151)  (15,194) 
Change in financial assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities  11,531  2,195  1,903  221  15,850 
Change in demographic assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities  47  —  (14)  (15)  18 
Experience gains and losses arising on the plan liabilities  (146)  (15)  (159)  (14)  (334) 
Remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income  (1,523)  599  1,223  41  340 
Movements in benefit obligation during the year
Benefit obligation at 1 January  32,834  8,273  7,108  1,652  49,867 
Exchange adjustments  (3,224)  —  (443)  (68)  (3,735) 
Operating charge relating to defined benefit plans  56  219  86  —  361 
Interest cost  529  217  85  61  892 
Contributions by plan participants  9  —  2  4  15 
Benefit payments (funded plans)c (1,211)  (364)  (78)  (79)  (1,732) 
Benefit payments (unfunded plans)c (7)  (285)  (229)  (23)  (544) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  —  —  —  (12)  (12) 
Disposals  (74)  —  (2)  —  (76) 
Remeasurements  (11,432)  (2,180)  (1,730)  (192)  (15,534) 
Benefit obligation at 31 Decembera d 17,480  5,880  4,799  1,343  29,502 
Movements in fair value of plan assets during the year
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January  42,844  7,173  2,537  1,412  53,966 
Exchange adjustments  (4,258)  —  (156)  (52)  (4,466) 
Interest income on plan assetsa e 694  189  34  44  961 
Contributions by plan participants  9  —  2  4  15 
Contributions by employers (funded plans)  10  —  45  19  74 
Benefit payments (funded plans)c (1,211)  (364)  (78)  (79)  (1,732) 
Reclassified as assets held for sale  —  —  —  (11)  (11) 
Disposals  (86)  —  —  —  (86) 
Remeasurementse (12,955)  (1,581)  (507)  (151)  (15,194) 
Fair value of plan assets at 31 Decemberf 25,047  5,417  1,877  1,186  33,527 
Surplus (deficit) at 31 December  7,567  (463)  (2,922)  (157)  4,025 
Represented by
Asset recognized  7,716  1,227  256  70  9,269 
Liability recognized  (149)  (1,690)  (3,178)  (227)  (5,244) 
 7,567  (463)  (2,922)  (157)  4,025 
The surplus (deficit) may be analysed between funded and unfunded plans as follows
Funded  7,716  1,227  238  39  9,220 
Unfunded  (149)  (1,690)  (3,160)  (196)  (5,195) 
 7,567  (463)  (2,922)  (157)  4,025 
The defined benefit obligation may be analysed between funded and unfunded plans as follows
Funded  (17,331)  (4,190)  (1,639)  (1,147)  (24,307) 
Unfunded  (149)  (1,690)  (3,160)  (196)  (5,195) 
 (17,480)  (5,880)  (4,799)  (1,343)  (29,502) 
aThe costs of managing plan investments are offset against the investment return, the costs of administering pension plan benefits are generally included in current service cost and the costs of 
administering other post-retirement benefit plans are included in the benefit obligation. Following the closure of the primary UK pension plan to future accrual, current service cost in the UK consists of 
$30 million  of costs of administering that plan and $11 million  of current service cost from the remaining small worldwide plans administered and reported through the UK.
bPast service costs predominantly represent largely offsetting income and costs due to the removal of some benefits for members in Turkish plans and their replacement with new arrangements 
administered and reported through the UK. Settlements reflect costs associated with buyouts in Canada and in certain other small worldwide plans administered and reported through the UK. 
cThe benefit payments amount shown above comprises $2,217 million  benefits and $8 million  settlements, plus $51 million  of plan expenses incurred in the administration of the benefit.
dThe benefit obligation for the US is made up of $4,411 million  for pension liabilities and $1,469 million  for other post-retirement benefit liabilities (which are unfunded and are primarily retiree medical 
liabilities). The benefit obligation for the Eurozone includes $2,992 million  for pension liabilities in Germany which is largely unfunded.
eThe actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the interest income on plan assets and the remeasurement of plan assets as disclosed above.
fThe fair value of plan assets includes borrowings related to the LDI programme as described on page 214 .Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 217

24. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  – continued
$ million
 2021
 UK US Eurozone Other Total
Analysis of the amount charged to profit or loss
Current service costa 154  246  105  31  536 
Past service costb (302)  —  (27)  2  (327) 
Settlementb —  —  (4)  (1)  (5) 
Operating charge (credit) relating to defined benefit plans  (148)  246  74  32  204 
Payments to defined contribution plans  76  136  7  36  255 
Total operating charge (credit)  (72)  382  81  68  459 
Interest income on plan assetsa (684)  (150)  (30)  (40)  (904) 
Interest on plan liabilities  559  209  78  56  902 
Other finance (income) expense  (125)  59  48  16  (2) 
Analysis of the amount recognized in other comprehensive income
Actual asset return less interest income on plan assets  2,440  749  12  25  3,226 
Change in financial assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities  (100)  777  233  97  1,007 
Change in demographic assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities  66  (41)  (15)  1  11 
Experience gains and losses arising on the plan liabilities  7  173  (11)  3  172 
Remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income  2,413  1,658  219  126  4,416 
aThe costs of managing plan investments are offset against the investment return, the costs of administering pension plan benefits are generally included in current service cost and the costs of 
administering other post-retirement benefit plans are included in the benefit obligation. 
bThe past service credit in the UK represents curtailment gains arising from the closure of the primary pension plan in the UK to future accrual. For active members of that plan on 30 June 2021, benefits 
payable are now linked to salary as at that date. Past service credits and settlements in the Eurozone include $18 million  of curtailments and settlements due to restructuring initiatives. Remaining past 
service cost and settlements represent charges for special termination benefits arising as a result of early retirements. 
Sensitivity analysis
The discount rate, inflation and the mortality assumptions all have a significant effect on the amounts reported.  A one-percentage  point change, in 
isolation, in certain assumptions as at 31 December 2023  for the group’s pensions and other post-retirement  benefit expense would have had the effects 
shown in the tables below. The effects shown for the expense in 2024  comprise the total of current service cost and net finance income or expense.
$ million
  One percentage point
UK US Eurozone
 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease
Discount ratea
Effect on expense in 2024  (197)  173  (40)  46  (8)  4 
Effect on obligation at 31 December 2023  (2,259)  2,811  (449)  651  (608)  737 
Inflation rateb
Effect on expense in 2024  89  (83)  7  (6)  34  (29) 
Effect on obligation at 31 December 2023  1,872  (1,738)  41  (35)  582  (503) 
aThe amounts presented reflect that the discount rate is used to determine the asset interest income as well as the interest cost on the obligation.
bThe amounts presented reflect the total impact of an inflation rate change on the assumptions for rate of increase in salaries, pensions in payment and deferred pensions.
$ million
  One year increase
UK US Eurozone
Longevity
Effect on expense in 2024  28  4  10 
Effect on obligation at 31 December 2023  577  64  216 
Estimated future benefit payments and the weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations
The expected benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, but exclude plan expenses, and the weighted average duration of the 
defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2023  are as follows:
$ million
Estimated future benefit payments UK US Eurozone Other Total
2024  1,169  474  332  88  2,063 
2025  1,113  469  326  84  1,992 
2026  1,126  456  318  85  1,985 
2027  1,146  458  313  86  2,003 
2028  1,159  441  308  86  1,994 
2029 - 2033  5,958  2,204  1,454  440  10,056 
 Years
Weighted average duration 12.9 9.3 12.9 11.4
218 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

25. Cash and cash equivalents  
$ million
2023 2022
Cash  16,683  15,008 
Triparty repos and term bank deposits  9,788  7,971 
Other cash equivalents  6,559  6,216 
 33,030  29,195 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand; current balances with banks and similar institutions; deposits and triparty repos of three months or less 
with banks and similar institutions; money market funds and treasury bills. The carrying amounts of cash, triparty repos, term bank deposits and treasury 
bills approximate their fair values. Substantially all of the other cash equivalents are categorized within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2023  includes $5,282 million  (2022  $5,866 million ) that is restricted. The restricted cash balances include 
amounts required to cover initial margin on trading exchanges and certain cash balances which are subject to exchange controls.
The group holds $7,174 million  (2022  $5,822 million ) of cash and cash equivalents outside the UK and it is not expected that any significant tax will arise 
on repatriation.
26. Finance debt
$ million
2023 2022
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
Borrowings  3,284  48,670  51,954  3,198  43,746  46,944 
The main elements of current borrowings are the current portion of long-term borrowings that is due to be repaid in the next 12 months of $2,688 million  
(2022  $2,297 million ) and issued commercial paper of $456 million  (2022  $725 million ). Finance debt does not include accrued interest of $495 million  
(2022  $409 million ), which is reported within other payables. As part of actively managing its debt portfolio, during the year the group bought back 
$1.7 billion  equivalent of finance debt consisting entirely of euro bonds ( 2022  $7.4 billion  US dollar bonds). Derivatives associated with non-US dollar debt 
bought back were also terminated. These transactions have no significant impact on net debt or gearing.
The following table shows the weighted-average interest rates achieved through a combination of borrowings and derivative financial instruments entered 
into to manage interest rate and currency exposures.
Fixed rate debt Floating rate debt Total
Weighted
average
interest
rate
%Weighted
average
time for
which rate
is fixed
YearsAmount
$ millionWeighted
average
interest
rate
%Amount
$ millionAmount
$ million
2023
US dollar  4 13 33,511  8  18,134  51,645 
Other currencies  6 7 205  10  104  309 
 33,716  18,238  51,954 
2022
US dollar  3 14 28,651  6  18,105  46,756 
Other currencies  6 8 188  —  —  188 
 28,839  18,105  46,944 
Fair values
The estimated fair value of finance debt is shown in the table below together with the carrying amount as reflected in the balance sheet.
Long-term borrowings in the table below include the portion of debt that matures in the 12 months  from 31 December 2023 , whereas in the group balance 
sheet the amount is reported within current finance debt.
The carrying amount of the group’s short-term borrowings, comprising mainly of commercial paper, approximates their fair value. The fair values of the 
significant majority of the group’s long-term borrowings are determined using quoted prices in active markets, and so fall within level 1  of the fair value 
hierarchy. Where quoted prices are not available, quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets are used and such measurements are therefore 
categorized in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
$ million
2023 2022
Fair valueCarrying
amount Fair valueCarrying
amount
Short-term borrowings  596  596  901  901 
Long-term borrowings  48,199  51,358  41,689  46,043 
Total finance debt  48,795  51,954  42,590  46,944 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 219

27. Capital disclosures and net debt  
The group defines capital as total equity plus net debt. Our financial framework seeks to support the pursuit of value growth for shareholders while 
maintaining a secure financial base.
The group monitors capital on the basis of gearing, that is, the ratio of net debt to the total of net debt plus total equity. Net debt is calculated as finance 
debt, as shown in the balance sheet, plus the fair value of associated derivative financial instruments that are used to hedge foreign exchange and interest 
rate risks relating to finance debt for which hedge accounting is applied, less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt and gearing are  non- IFRS measures. bp 
believes these measures provide useful information to investors. Net debt enables investors to see the economic effect of finance debt, related hedges and 
cash and cash equivalents in total. Gearing enables investors to see how significant net debt is relative to total equity. The derivatives are reported on the 
balance sheet within the headings ‘Derivative financial instruments’. All components of equity are included in the denominator of the calculation.
At 31 December 2023 , gearing was 19.7%  (2022  20.5% ).
$ million
At 31 December 2023 2022
Finance debt  51,954  46,944 
Less: fair value asset (liability) of hedges related to finance debta (1,988)  (3,673) 
 53,942  50,617 
Less: cash and cash equivalents  33,030  29,195 
Net debt  20,912  21,422 
Total equity  85,493  82,990 
Gearing  19.7 %  20.5 %
aDerivative financial instruments entered into for the purpose of managing interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk associated with net debt with a fair value  liability  position of $73 million  (2022  
liability  of $91 million ) are not included in the calculation of net debt shown above as hedge accounting was not applied for these instruments. 
Certain subsidiaries in the group have externally imposed capital requirements and have been in compliance with these requirements throughout the year.
An analysis of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities is provided below.
$ million
Finance
debtCurrency 
swapsaLease liabilitiesNet partner 
payable for 
leases entered 
into on behalf of 
joint operationsTotal liabilities 
arising from 
financing 
activities
At 1 January 2023  46,944  5,312  8,549  42  60,847 
Exchange adjustments  33  —  132  1  166 
Net financing cash flow  3,040  (213)  (2,560)  (22)  245 
Fair value (gains) losses  1,389  (2,065)  —  —  (676) 
New and remeasured leases/joint operations payables  —  —  4,956  10  4,966 
Other movementsb 548  (56)  44  (1)  535 
At 31 December 2023  51,954  2,978  11,121  30  66,083 
At 1 January 2022  61,176  481  8,611  250  70,518 
Exchange adjustments  (164)  —  (260)  1  (423) 
Net financing cash flow  (10,855)  (192)  (1,961)  (29)  (13,037) 
Fair value (gains) losses  (3,694)  5,023  —  —  1,329 
New and remeasured leases/joint operations payables  —  —  2,367  21  2,388 
Other movementsc 481  —  (208)  (201)  72 
At 31 December 2022  46,944  5,312  8,549  42  60,847 
aCurrency swaps include cross currency interest rate swaps.
b2023 other movements in finance debt include $545 million  acquired with TravelCenters of America.
c2022 other movements in finance debt include $1,044 million  acquired with Archaea Energy Inc. and a non-cash reduction in balances related to the Alaska divestment. Other movements in the net partner 
payable for leases entered into on behalf of joint operations primarily represent transfers to amounts held for sale.
The finance debt and currency swap balances above do not include accrued interest, which is reported within other receivables and other payables on the 
balance sheet and for which the associated cash flows are presented as operating cash flows in the group cash flow statement. The currency swaps are 
reported on the balance sheet within the headings 'Derivative financial instruments' and are subsets of both derivatives held for trading and derivatives 
designated in fair value hedge relationships as detailed in Note 30 . When hedge accounting is applied to these derivatives they are included in the 
calculation of net debt shown above. 
In addition to the liabilities included in the table above the group has accrued $746 million  (2022  $497 million ) at the balance sheet date for shares 
repurchased between the end of the reporting period and  6 February 2024 . $7,918 million  (2022  $9,996 million ) is included in financing activities in the 
group cash flow statement for the cash used to repurchase shares during the year.
220 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

28. Leases  
The group leases a number of assets as part of its activities. This primarily includes drilling rigs in the oil production & operations and gas & low carbon 
energy segments and  retail service stations, oil depots and storage tanks in the customer & products segment as well as office accommodation and 
vessel charters across the group. The weighted-average remaining lease term for the total lease portfolio is around 7 years  (2022  7 years ). Some leases 
have payments that vary with market interest or inflation rates. Certain leases contain residual value guarantees, which may be triggered in certain 
circumstances such as if market values have significantly declined at the conclusion of the lease.
The table below shows the timing of the undiscounted cash outflows for the lease liabilities included on the balance sheet.  
$ million
2023 2022
Undiscounted lease liability cash flows due:
Within 1 year  3,038  2,348 
1 to 2 years  2,177  1,728 
2 to 3 years  1,386  1,232 
3 to 4 years  1,139  740 
4 to 5 years  947  632 
5 to 10 years  3,045  1,909 
Over 10 years  1,348  1,275 
 13,080  9,864 
Impact of discounting  (1,959)  (1,315) 
Lease liabilities at 31 December  11,121  8,549 
Of which – current  2,650  2,102 
– non-current  8,471  6,447 
The group may enter into lease arrangements a number of years before taking control of the underlying asset due to construction lead times or to secure 
future operational requirements. The total undiscounted amount for future commitments for leases not yet commenced as at 31 December 2023  is $5,507 
million  (2022  $5,360 million ). The majority of this future commitment relates to the floating LNG vessel to service the Greater Tortue Ahmeyim project 
from 2025.
$ million
2023 2022
Total cash outflow for amounts included in lease liabilitiesa 2,904  2,200 
Expense for variable payments not included in the lease liabilitya 27  27 
Short-term lease expensea 657  482 
Additions to right-of-use assets in the period  5,015  2,451 
aThe cash outflows for amounts not included in lease liabilities approximate the income statement expenses disclosed above. 
An analysis of right-of-use assets and depreciation is provided in Note 12 . An analysis of lease interest expense is provided in Note 7 . 
29. Financial instruments and financial risk factors  
The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments and their carrying amounts are set out below. 
$ million
At 31 December 2023 NoteMeasured at 
amortized costMandatorily 
measured at fair 
value through 
profit or lossDerivative 
hedging 
instrumentsTotal carrying
amount
Financial assets
Other investments 18  26  3,006  —  3,032 
Loans  1,725  457  —  2,182 
Trade and other receivables 20  31,354  —  —  31,354 
Derivative financial instruments 30  —  22,444  119  22,563 
Cash and cash equivalents 25  27,804  5,226  —  33,030 
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 22  (65,516)  —  —  (65,516) 
Derivative financial instruments 30  —  (13,545)  (2,107)  (15,652) 
Accruals  (7,837)  —  —  (7,837) 
Lease liabilities 28  (11,121)  —  —  (11,121) 
Finance debt 26  (51,954)  —  —  (51,954) 
 (75,519)  17,588  (1,988)  (59,919) Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 221

29. Financial instruments and financial risk factors  – continued
$ million
At 31 December 2022 NoteMeasured at 
amortized costMandatorily 
measured at fair 
value through 
profit or lossDerivative 
hedging 
instrumentsTotal carrying
amount
Financial assets
Other investments  18  26  3,222  —  3,248 
Loans  1,245  341  —  1,586 
Trade and other receivables  20  33,535  —  —  33,535 
Derivative financial instruments  30  —  24,395  —  24,395 
Cash and cash equivalents  25  25,611  3,584  —  29,195 
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables  22  (69,586)  —  —  (69,586) 
Derivative financial instruments  30  —  (22,481)  (3,674)  (26,155) 
Accruals  (7,631)  —  —  (7,631) 
Lease liabilities  28  (8,549)  —  —  (8,549) 
Finance debt  26  (46,944)  —  —  (46,944) 
 (72,293)  9,061  (3,674)  (66,906) 
The fair value of finance debt is shown in Note 26 . For all other financial instruments within the scope of IFRS 9, the carrying amount is either the fair value, 
or approximates the fair value.
Information on gains and losses on derivative financial assets and financial liabilities classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss is provided 
in the derivative gains and losses section of Note 30 . Fair value gains and losses related to other assets and liabilities classified as measured at fair value 
through profit or loss totalled a net loss of  $11 million  (2022  net loss of $238 million  and 2021 net gain of $627 million ). Dividend income of $18 million  
(2022  $14 million  and 2021 $11 million ) from investments in equity instruments classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss is presented 
within other income.
Interest income and expenses arising on financial instruments are disclosed in Note 7 .
Financial risk factors
The group is exposed to a number of different financial risks arising from ordinary business exposures as well as its use of financial instruments including 
market risks relating to commodity prices; foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; credit risk; and liquidity risk.
The group financial risk committee (GFRC) advises the chief financial officer (CFO) who oversees the management of these risks. The GFRC is chaired by 
the CFO and consists of a group of senior managers including the EVP trading and shipping and SVPs treasury, tax, accounting reporting control and 
planning & performance management. The purpose of the committee is to advise on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance 
framework for the group. The committee provides assurance to the CFO and the chief executive officer (CEO), and via the CEO to the board, that the 
group’s financial risk-taking activity is governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in 
accordance with group policies and group risk appetite.
The group’s trading activities in the oil, natural gas, LNG and power markets are managed within the trading and shipping business. Treasury holds foreign 
exchange and interest-rate products in the financial markets to hedge group exposures related to debt and hybrid bond issuance; the compliance, control 
and risk management processes for these activities are managed within the treasury business. All other foreign exchange and interest rate activities within 
financial markets are performed within the trading and shipping business and are also underpinned by the compliance, control and risk management 
infrastructure common to the activities of bp’s trading and shipping business. All derivative activity is carried out by specialist teams that have the 
appropriate skills, experience and supervision. These teams are subject to close financial and management control.
The trading and shipping business maintains formal governance processes that provide oversight of market risk, credit risk and operational risk associated 
with trading activity. A policy and risk committee approves value-at-risk delegations, reviews incidents and validates risk-related policies, methodologies 
and procedures. A commitments committee approves the trading of new products, instruments and strategies and material commitments.
In addition, the trading and shipping business undertakes derivative activity for risk management purposes under a control framework as described more 
fully below. 
(a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk or uncertainty arising from possible market price movements and their impact on the future performance of a business. The primary 
commodity price risks that the group is exposed to include oil, natural gas and power prices that could adversely affect the value of the group’s financial 
assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows. The group has developed a control framework aimed at managing the volatility inherent in certain of its 
ordinary business exposures. In accordance with the control framework the group enters into various transactions using derivatives for risk management 
purposes.
The major components of market risk are commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk, each of which is discussed below.
(i) Commodity price risk
The group’s trading and shipping business is responsible for delivering value across the overall crude, oil products, gas, LNG and power supply chains. As 
such, it routinely enters into spot and term physical commodity contracts in addition to optimising physical storage, pipeline and transportation capacity. 
These activities expose the group to commodity price risk which is managed by entering into oil, natural gas and power swaps, options and futures.
The group measures market risk exposure arising from its trading positions in liquid periods using value-at-risk techniques based on Monte Carlo 
simulation models. These techniques make a statistical assessment of the market risk arising from possible future changes in market prices over a one-
day holding period within a 95% confidence level. Trading activity occurring in liquid periods is subject to value-at-risk and other limits for each trading 
222 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

29. Financial instruments and financial risk factors  – continued
activity and the aggregate of all trading activity. The calculation of potential changes in value within the liquid period considers positions, historical price 
movements and the correlation of these price movements. Models are regularly reviewed against actual fair value movements to ensure integrity is 
maintained.  The value-at-risk measure is supplemented by stress testing and scenario analysis through simulating the financial impact of certain physical, 
economic and geo-political scenarios. The value-at-risk measure in respect of the aggregated trading positions in liquid periods at 31 December 2023  was 
$26 million  (2022  $63 million ) whereas the average value-at-risk measure for the period was $49 million  (2022  $89 million ). This measure incorporates the 
effect of diversification reflecting the offsetting risks across the trading portfolio.  Alternative measures are used to monitor exposures which are outside of 
liquid periods and for which value-at-risk techniques are not appropriate. 
(ii) Foreign currency exchange risk
Since bp has global operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have a significant effect on the group’s reported results and future 
expenditure commitments. The effects of most exchange rate fluctuations are absorbed in business operating results through changing cost 
competitiveness, lags in market adjustment to movements in rates and translation differences accounted for on specific transactions. For this reason, the 
total effect of exchange rate fluctuations is not identifiable separately in the group’s reported results. The main underlying economic currency of the 
group’s cash flows is the US dollar. This is because bp’s major product, oil, is priced internationally in US dollars. bp’s foreign currency exchange 
management policy is to limit economic and material transactional exposures arising from currency movements against the US dollar. The group co-
ordinates the handling of foreign currency exchange risks centrally, by netting off naturally-occurring opposite exposures wherever possible and then 
managing any material residual foreign currency exchange risks.
Most of the group’s borrowings are in US dollars or are hedged with respect to the US dollar. At 31 December 2023 , the total foreign currency borrowings 
not swapped into US dollars amounted to  $309 million  (2022  $188 million ). The group also has in issue perpetual subordinated hybrid bonds in euro, 
sterling and US dollars. Whilst the contractual terms of these instruments allow the group to defer coupon payments and the repayment of principal 
indefinitely, the group has chosen to manage the foreign currency exposure relating to the non-US dollar hybrid bonds to their respective first call periods.
The group manages the net residual foreign currency exposures by constantly reviewing the foreign currency economic value at risk and aims to manage 
such risk to keep the 12-month foreign currency value at risk below $400 million . At no point over the past three years  did the value at risk exceed the 
maximum risk limit. A continuous assessment is made in respect of the group’s foreign currency exposures to capture hedging requirements. 
During the year, hedge accounting was applied to foreign currency exposure to highly probable forecast capital expenditure commitments. The group fixes 
the US dollar cost of non-US dollar supplies by using currency forwards for the highly probable forecast capital expenditure. At 31 December 2023  the 
most significant open contracts in place were for USD equivalent amounts of  $296 million  sterling and $22 million  Euro ( 2022  $5 million  sterling).
Where the group enters into foreign currency exchange contracts for entrepreneurial trading purposes the activity is controlled using trading value-at-risk 
techniques as explained in (i) commodity price risk above. 
(iii) Interest rate risk
bp is also exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial 
instruments, principally finance debt. While the group issues debt and hybrid bonds in a variety of currencies based on market opportunities, it uses 
derivatives to swap the economic exposure to a floating rate basis, mainly to US dollar floating, but in certain defined circumstances maintains a US dollar 
fixed rate exposure for a proportion of debt. The proportion of floating rate debt net of interest rate swaps at 31 December 2023  was 35%  of total finance 
debt outstanding ( 2022  39% ). The weighted average interest rate on finance debt at 31 December 2023  was 5% (2022  4%) and the weighted average 
maturity of fixed rate debt was thirteen years  (2022  fourteen years ).
The group’s earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the element of the group’s finance debt that is contractually floating rate or has been 
swapped to floating rates (see Note 26). If the interest rates applicable to these floating rate instruments were to have changed by one percentage point on 
1 January 2024 , it is estimated that the group’s finance costs for 2024  would change by approximately $182 million  (2022  $181 million ). 
Prior to June 2023, the main benchmark interest rate to which bp was exposed was 3 month USD LIBOR, primarily in relation to finance debt and derivative 
contracts. During 2023, bp's internal working group for IBOR reform continued to monitor market developments and managed the transition to alternative 
benchmark rates. Publication of USD LIBOR tenors, including 3 month USD LIBOR, ceased from 30 June 2023.
Finance debt exposed to IBOR benchmark rates was renegotiated with relevant counterparties and transitioned to reference alternative risk free 
benchmarks. Amendments to finance debt terms arising were limited only to changes necessary to ensure economic equivalence with the former interest 
benchmarks, for example credit spread adjustments to the contractual interest rates.
Derivatives that previously referenced USD LIBOR also transitioned to referencing the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ( SOFR) via the International Swaps 
and Derivatives Association (ISDA) fallback protocol. The derivatives comprise relevant derivative contracts hedging finance debt and hybrid bonds. In 
October 2020 the ISDA published its fallback protocol containing clauses to amend derivative contracts on the cessation of LIBOR should an entity and its 
counterparties adhere to the protocol. The protocol’s pricing mechanism is at fair market value and bp has signed up to the protocol as this removes 
transition uncertainty for any interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swap contracts of the group. New contracts are being executed based on the 
new risk free rates. As at 31 December 2023, bp has no remaining contractual exposure to interest rate benchmark reform.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due causing financial loss to the 
group and arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with financial institutions and principally from credit 
exposures to customers relating to outstanding receivables. Credit exposure also exists in relation to guarantees issued by group companies under which 
the outstanding exposure incremental to that recognized on the balance sheet at 31 December 2023  was $1,655 million  (2022  $1,704 million ) in respect of 
liabilities of joint ventures and associates and $598 million  (2022  $680 million ) in respect of liabilities of other third parties. An amount of $201 million  
(2022  $267 million ) is recorded as a liability at 31 December 2023  in relation to these guarantees. For all guarantees, maturity dates vary, and the 
guarantees will terminate on payment and/or cancellation of the obligation. In general, a payment under the guarantee contract would be triggered by 
failure of the guaranteed party to fulfil its obligation covered by the guarantee.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 223

29. Financial instruments and financial risk factors  – continued
The group has a credit policy, approved by the CFO, that is designed to ensure that consistent processes are in place throughout the group to measure and 
control credit risk. Credit risk is considered as part of the risk-reward balance of doing business. On entering into any business contract the extent to which 
the arrangement exposes the group to credit risk is considered. Key requirements of the policy include segregation of credit approval authorities from any 
sales, marketing or trading teams authorized to incur credit risk; the establishment of credit systems and processes to ensure that all counterparty 
exposure is rated and that all counterparty exposure and limits can be monitored and reported; and the timely identification and reporting of any non-
approved credit exposures and credit losses. While each segment is responsible for its own credit risk management and reporting consistent with group 
policy, treasury holds group-wide credit risk authority and oversight responsibility for exposure to banks and financial institutions. 
For the purposes of financial reporting the group calculates expected loss allowances based on the maximum contractual period over which the group is 
exposed to credit risk. Lifetime expected credit losses are recognized for trade receivables and the credit risk associated with the significant majority of 
financial assets measured at amortized cost is considered to be low. Since the tenor of substantially all of the group's in-scope financial assets is less than 
12 months there is no significant difference between the measurement of 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses. Expected loss allowances for 
financial guarantee contracts are typically lower than their initial fair value less, where appropriate, amortization. Financial assets are considered to be 
credit-impaired when there is reasonable and supportable evidence that one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash 
flows of the financial asset have occurred. This includes observable data concerning significant financial difficulty of the counterparty; a breach of 
contract; concession being granted to the counterparty for economic or contractual reasons relating to the counterparty’s financial difficulty, that would 
not otherwise be considered; it becoming probable that the counterparty will enter bankruptcy or other financial re-organization or an active market for the 
financial asset disappearing because of financial difficulties. The group also applies a rebuttable presumption that an asset is credit-impaired when 
contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. Where the group has no reasonable expectation of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a 
portion thereof, for example where all legal avenues for collection of amounts due have been exhausted, the financial asset (or relevant portion) is written 
off.
The measurement of expected credit losses is a function of the probability of default, loss given default (i.e. the magnitude of the loss after recovery if 
there is a default) and the exposure at default (i.e. the asset's carrying amount). The group allocates a credit risk rating to exposures based on data that is 
determined to be predictive of the risk of loss, including but not limited to external ratings. Probabilities of default derived from historical, current and 
future-looking market data are assigned by credit risk rating with a loss given default based on historical experience and relevant market and academic 
research applied by exposure type. Experienced credit judgement is applied to ensure probabilities of default are reflective of the credit risk associated with 
the group's exposures. Credit enhancements that would reduce the group's credit losses in the event of default are reflected in the calculation when they 
are considered integral to the related asset.
The maximum credit exposure associated with financial assets is equal to the carrying amount. The group does not aim to remove credit risk entirely but 
expects to experience a certain level of credit losses. As at 31 December 2023 , the group had in place credit enhancements designed to mitigate 
approximately  $12.0 billion  (2022  $12.6 billion ) of credit risk of which approximately $10.7 billion  (2022  $10.3 billion ) related to assets in the scope of IFRS 
9's impairment requirements. Credit enhancements include standby and documentary letters of credit, bank guarantees, insurance and liens which are 
typically taken out with financial institutions who have investment grade credit ratings, or are liens over assets held by the counterparty of the related 
receivables. Reports are regularly prepared and presented to the GFRC that cover the group’s overall credit exposure and expected loss trends, exposure 
by segment, and overall quality of the portfolio.
Management information used to monitor credit risk, which reflects the impact of credit enhancements, indicates that the risk profile of financial assets 
which are subject to review for impairment under IFRS 9 is as set out  in the table below.
%
As at 31 December 2023 2022
AAA to AA-  7 %  9 %
A+ to A-  59 %  49 %
BBB+ to BBB-  15 %  15 %
BB+ to BB-  7 %  11 %
B+ to B-  4 %  12 %
CCC+ and below  8 %  4 %
Movements in the impairment provision for trade and other receivables are shown in Note 21 .
224 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

29. Financial instruments and financial risk factors  – continued
Financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements
The following table shows the amounts recognized for financial assets and liabilities which are subject to offsetting arrangements on a gross basis, and 
the amounts offset in the balance sheet.
Amounts which cannot be offset under IFRS, but which could be settled net under the terms of master netting agreements if certain conditions arise, and 
collateral received or pledged, are also presented in the table to show the total net exposure of the group.
$ million
Gross 
amounts of 
recognized 
financial 
assets 
(liabilities)Amounts
set offNet amounts
presented on
the balance
sheetRelated amounts not set off
in the balance sheet
Net amount At 31 December 2023Master
netting
arrangementsCash
collateral
(received)
pledged
Derivative assets  25,188  (2,625)  22,563  (3,436)  (1,245)  17,882 
Derivative liabilities  (18,277)  2,625  (15,652)  3,436  263  (11,953) 
Trade and other receivables  17,867  (7,789)  10,078  (1,141)  (633)  8,304 
Trade and other payables  (16,284)  7,789  (8,495)  1,141  44  (7,310) 
At 31 December 2022
Derivative assets  33,199  (8,804)  24,395  (3,988)  (918)  19,489 
Derivative liabilities  (34,918)  8,804  (26,114)  3,988  436  (21,690) 
Trade and other receivables  17,947  (8,381)  9,566  (1,325)  (224)  8,017 
Trade and other payables  (20,671)  8,381  (12,290)  1,325  61  (10,904) 
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for the group’s business activities may not be available. The group’s liquidity is managed centrally 
with operating units forecasting their cash and currency requirements to the central treasury function. Unless restricted by local regulations, generally 
subsidiaries pool their cash surpluses to the treasury function, which will then arrange to fund other subsidiaries’ requirements, or invest any net surplus in 
the market or arrange for necessary external borrowings, while managing the group’s overall net currency positions. While there is the potential for 
concerns about the energy transition to impact banks’ or debt investors’ appetite to finance hydrocarbon activity, we do not anticipate any material change 
to the group's funding or liquidity in the short to medium term as a result of such concerns.
The group benefits from open credit provided by suppliers who generally sell on five to 60-day payment terms in accordance with industry norms. bp 
utilizes various arrangements in order to manage its working capital and reduce volatility in cash flow. This includes discounting of receivables and, in the 
supply and trading businesses, managing inventory, collateral and supplier payment terms within a maximum of 60 days.
It is normal practice in the oil and gas supply and trading business for customers and suppliers to utilize letter of credit (LC) facilities to mitigate credit and 
non-performance risk. Consequently, LCs facilitate active trading in a global market where credit and performance risk can be significant. In common with 
the industry, bp routinely provides LCs to some of its suppliers.
The group has committed LC facilities totalling $13,180 million  (2022  $12,730 million ), allowing LCs to be issued for a maximum 24-month duration. There 
were also uncommitted secured LC facilities in place at 31 December 2023  for $3,515 million  (2022  $3,800 million ), whi ch are secured against inventories 
or receivables when utilized. The facilities are held with over 28 international banks. The uncommitted LC facilities can only be terminated by either party 
giving a stipulated termination notice to the other.
In certain circumstances, the supplier has the option to request accelerated payment from the LC provider in order to further reduce their exposure. bp’s 
payments are made to the provider of the LC rather than the supplier according to the original contractual payment terms. At 31 December 2023 , $9,955 
million  (2022  $9,520 million ) of the group’s trade payables subject to these arrangements were payable to LC providers, with no material exposure to any 
individual provider. If these facilities were not available, this could result in renegotiation of payment terms with suppliers such that settlement periods 
were shorter. 
Standard & Poor’s Ratings long-term credit rating for bp is A- (positive) and Moody’s Investors Service rating is A2 (positive) and the Fitch Ratings' long-
term credit rating is A+ (stable).
During 2023 , $6 billion  (2022  $2 billion ) of long-term taxable bonds were issued with terms ranging from seven  to 15 years . In addition the group drew 
down on perpetual hybrid capital instruments with a US dollar equivalent value of $0.2 billion  (2022  $0.4 billion ). Commercial paper is issued at competitive 
rates to meet short-term borrowing requirements as and when needed.
As a further liquidity measure, the group continues to maintain suitable levels of cash and cash equivalents, amounting to $33.0 billion  at 31 December 
2023  (2022  $29.2 billion ), primarily invested with highly rated banks or money market funds and readily accessible at immediate and short notice. At 
31 December 2023 , the group had substantial amounts of undrawn borrowing facilities available, consisting of an undrawn committed $8.0 billion  (2022  
$8.0 billion ) credit facility and $4.0 billion  (2022  $4.0 billion ) of standby facilities. As at 31 December 2023  $0.2 billion  of the credit facility was available for 
one year and $7.8 billion  was available for 2 years. As at 31 December 2023 $0.1 billion  of the standby facilities were available for three years and 
$3.9 billion  were available for four years. The facilities are with 27 international banks and borrowings under them would be at pre-agreed rates.
For further information on the group's sources and uses of cash see Liquidity and capital resources on page 340 . 
The group manages liquidity risk associated with derivative contracts, other than derivative hedging instruments, based on the expected maturities of both 
derivative assets and liabilities as indicated in Note 30 . Management does not currently anticipate any cash flows, other than noted below, that could be of 
a significantly different amount or could occur earlier than the expected maturity analysis provided.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 225

29. Financial instruments and financial risk factors  – continued
The table below shows the timing of undiscounted cash outflows relating to finance debt, trade and other payables and accruals. As part of actively 
managing the group’s debt portfolio it is possible that cash flows in relation to finance debt could be accelerated from the profile provided. 
$ million
2023 2022
Trade and
other
payablesaAccrualsFinance
debtInterest on 
finance debtTrade and
other
payablesaAccrualsFinance
debtInterest on 
finance debtb
Within one year  56,852  6,527  3,054  2,394  59,618  6,398  2,978  2,013 
1 to 2 years  1,876  329  3,820  2,151  1,625  230  2,811  1,848 
2 to 3 years  1,158  147  4,767  1,907  1,378  207  4,066  1,684 
3 to 4 years  1,178  135  5,367  1,666  1,192  110  5,077  1,452 
4 to 5 years  1,141  121  5,778  1,396  1,188  114  5,773  1,204 
5 to 10 years  5,028  382  12,939  4,894  6,109  348  13,621  3,680 
Over 10 years  136  196  14,586  6,890  772  224  13,135  6,968 
 67,369  7,837  50,311  21,298  71,882  7,631  47,461  18,849 
a2023  includes $10,662 million  (2022  $11,884 million ) in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, of which $9,520 million  (2022  $10,660 million ) matures in greater than one year.
bComparative amounts for interest on finance debt have been amended to align with current year presentation. The amendment has increased cash outflows by $3,022 million .
The table below shows the timing of cash outflows for derivative financial instruments entered into for the purpose of managing interest rate and foreign 
currency exchange risk, whether or not hedge accounting is applied, based upon contractual payment dates. As part of actively managing the group’s debt 
portfolio it is possible that cash flows in relation to associated derivatives could be accelerated from the profile provided. The amounts reflect the gross 
settlement amount where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately from the receive leg, as in the case of cross-currency swaps hedging non-US 
dollar finance debt or hybrid bonds. The swaps are with high investment-grade counterparties and therefore the settlement-day risk exposure is considered 
to be negligible. Not shown in the table are the gross settlement amounts (inflows) for the receive leg of derivatives that are settled separately from the pay 
leg, which amount to $24,120 million  at 31 December 2023  (2022  $23,970 million ) to be received on the same day as the related cash outflows. 
$ million
Cash outflows for derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2023 2022
Within one year  2,071  1,492 
1 to 2 years  1,718  2,531 
2 to 3 years  5,136  2,053 
3 to 4 years  3,077  5,575 
4 to 5 years  1,743  3,584 
5 to 10 years  6,708  7,627 
Over 10 years  4,092  2,772 
   24,545  25,634 
For further information on our derivative financial instruments, see Note 30 .
30. Derivative financial instruments  
In the normal course of business  the group enters into derivative financial instruments (derivatives) to manage its normal business exposures in relation to 
commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, including management of the balance between floating rate and fixed rate debt, 
consistent with risk management policies and objectives. An outline of  the group’s financial risks and the objectives and policies pursued in relation to 
those risks is set out in  Note 29 . Additionally, the group has a well-established entrepreneurial trading operation that is undertaken in conjunction with 
these activities using a similar range of contracts.
For information on significant estimates and judgements made in relation to the valuation of derivatives see Derivative financial instruments within  Note 1 .
The fair values of derivative financial instruments at  31 December are set out below.
Exchange traded derivatives are valued using closing prices provided by the exchange as at the balance sheet date. These derivatives are categorized 
within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Exchange traded derivatives are typically considered settled through the (normally daily) payment or receipt of 
variation margin.
Over-the-counter (OTC) financial swaps, forwards and physical commodity sale and purchase contracts are generally valued using readily available 
information in the public markets and quotations provided by brokers and price index developers. These quotes are corroborated with market data and are 
categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
In certain less liquid markets, or for longer-term contracts, forward prices are not as readily available. In these circumstances, OTC financial swaps and 
physical commodity sale and purchase contracts are valued using internally developed methodologies that consider historical relationships between 
various commodities, and that result in management’s best estimate of fair value. These contracts are categorized within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
226 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
Financial OTC and physical commodity options are valued using industry standard models that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward 
prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors, and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic factors. The 
degree to which these inputs are observable in the forward markets determines whether the option is categorized within level 2 or level 3 of the fair value 
hierarchy.
$ million
2023 2022
Fair value
assetFair value
liabilityFair value
assetFair value
liability
Derivatives held for tradinga
Currency derivatives  478  (1,511)  634  (2,346) 
Oil price derivatives  1,859  (1,139)  2,753  (1,961) 
Natural gas price derivatives  14,750  (6,708)  15,437  (12,129) 
Power price derivatives  5,355  (4,187)  5,527  (6,004) 
Other derivatives  2  —  44  — 
 22,444  (13,545)  24,395  (22,440) 
Embedded derivatives
Other embedded derivatives  —  —  —  (41) 
 —  —  —  (41) 
Cash flow hedges
Currency forwards  —  (1)  —  — 
 —  (1)  —  — 
Fair value hedges
Currency swaps  119  (2,102)  —  (3,670) 
Interest rate swaps  —  (4)  —  (4) 
 119  (2,106)  —  (3,674) 
 22,563  (15,652)  24,395  (26,155) 
Of which – current  12,583  (5,250)  11,554  (12,618) 
– non-current  9,980  (10,402)  12,841  (13,537) 
aIncludes embedded derivatives for which the critical terms are matched by standalone derivatives that are also classified as held for trading.
Derivatives held for trading
The group maintains active trading positions in a variety of derivatives. The contracts may be entered into for risk management purposes, to satisfy supply 
requirements or for entrepreneurial trading. Certain contracts are classified as held for trading, regardless of their original business objective, and are 
recognized at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement. Trading activities are undertaken by using a range of contract types 
in combination to create incremental gains by arbitraging prices between markets, locations and time periods. The net of these exposures is monitored 
using market value-at-risk techniques as described in  Note 29 .
The following tables show further information on the fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments held for trading purposes.
Derivative assets held for trading have the following fair values and maturities.
$ million
2023
Less than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 yearsOver
5 years Total
Currency derivatives  95  31  38  33  28  253  478 
Oil price derivatives  1,423  206  81  52  41  56  1,859 
Natural gas price derivatives  8,705  1,412  625  458  426  3,124  14,750 
Power price derivatives  2,339  961  513  360  250  932  5,355 
Other derivatives  —  —  —  —  —  2  2 
 12,562  2,610  1,257  903  745  4,367  22,444 
$ million
2022
Less than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 yearsOver
5 years Total
Currency derivatives  536  14  10  10  9  55  634 
Oil price derivatives  1,971  445  150  63  35  89  2,753 
Natural gas price derivatives  7,157  3,740  749  442  316  3,033  15,437 
Power price derivatives  1,848  1,317  623  376  291  1,072  5,527 
Other derivatives  42  —  —  —  —  2  44 
 11,554  5,516  1,532  891  651  4,251  24,395 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 227

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
Derivative liabilities held for trading have the following fair values and maturities.
$ million
2023
Less than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 yearsOver
5 years Total
Currency derivatives  (341)  (3)  (405)  (166)  (7)  (589)  (1,511) 
Oil price derivatives  (1,047)  (61)  (14)  (4)  (1)  (12)  (1,139) 
Natural gas price derivatives  (2,126)  (796)  (473)  (348)  (293)  (2,672)  (6,708) 
Power price derivatives  (1,692)  (666)  (413)  (306)  (227)  (883)  (4,187) 
 (5,206)  (1,526)  (1,305)  (824)  (528)  (4,156)  (13,545) 
$ million
2022
Less than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 yearsOver
5 years Total
Currency derivatives  (587)  (95)  (3)  (629)  (319)  (713)  (2,346) 
Oil price derivatives  (1,615)  (318)  (23)  (4)  (1)  —  (1,961) 
Natural gas price derivatives  (7,255)  (1,157)  (539)  (328)  (214)  (2,636)  (12,129) 
Power price derivatives  (2,924)  (1,002)  (506)  (335)  (273)  (964)  (6,004) 
 (12,381)  (2,572)  (1,071)  (1,296)  (807)  (4,313)  (22,440) 
The following table shows the fair value of derivative assets and derivative liabilities held for trading, analysed by maturity period and by methodology of 
fair value estimation. This information is presented on a gross basis, that is, before netting by counterparty.
$ million
2023
Less than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 yearsOver
5 years Total
Fair value of derivative assets
Level 1  98  41  11  1  —  —  151 
Level 2  12,802  1,857  557  236  124  130  15,706 
Level 3  1,765  1,063  784  699  638  4,263  9,212 
 14,665  2,961  1,352  936  762  4,393  25,069 
Less: netting by counterparty  (2,103)  (351)  (95)  (33)  (17)  (26)  (2,625) 
 12,562  2,610  1,257  903  745  4,367  22,444 
Fair value of derivative liabilities
Level 1  (70)  (44)  (11)  (1)  —  —  (126) 
Level 2  (6,051)  (1,127)  (844)  (365)  (93)  (500)  (8,980) 
Level 3  (1,188)  (706)  (545)  (491)  (452)  (3,682)  (7,064) 
 (7,309)  (1,877)  (1,400)  (857)  (545)  (4,182)  (16,170) 
Less: netting by counterparty  2,103  351  95  33  17  26  2,625 
 (5,206)  (1,526)  (1,305)  (824)  (528)  (4,156)  (13,545) 
Net fair value  7,356  1,084  (48)  79  217  211  8,899 
 $ million
 2022
Less than
1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 yearsOver
5 years Total
Fair value of derivative assets
Level 1  207  17  19  4  —  —  247 
Level 2  17,161  5,628  935  289  77  65  24,155 
Level 3  1,525  1,014  783  659  601  4,215  8,797 
 18,893  6,659  1,737  952  678  4,280  33,199 
Less: netting by counterparty  (7,339)  (1,143)  (205)  (61)  (27)  (29)  (8,804) 
 11,554  5,516  1,532  891  651  4,251  24,395 
Fair value of derivative liabilities
Level 1  (281)  (20)  (22)  (7)  —  —  (330) 
Level 2  (18,116)  (2,901)  (702)  (915)  (437)  (805)  (23,876) 
Level 3  (1,323)  (794)  (552)  (435)  (397)  (3,537)  (7,038) 
 (19,720)  (3,715)  (1,276)  (1,357)  (834)  (4,342)  (31,244) 
Less: netting by counterparty  7,339  1,143  205  61  27  29  8,804 
 (12,381)  (2,572)  (1,071)  (1,296)  (807)  (4,313)  (22,440) 
Net fair value  (827)  2,944  461  (405)  (156)  (62)  1,955 
228 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
Level 3 derivatives
The following table shows the changes during the year in the net fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
$ million
Oil
priceNatural gas
pricePower
price Currency Other Total
Fair value contracts at 1 January 2023  28  905  (524)  61  44  514 
Gains (losses) recognized in the income statement  79  19  379  161  29  667 
Settlements  13  (320)  86  (3)  (71)  (295) 
Transfers out of level 3  (13)  (5)  (61)  —  —  (79) 
Net fair value of contracts at 31 December 2023  107  599  (120)  219  2  807 
Deferred day-one gains (losses)  1,341 
Derivative asset (liability)  2,148 
$ million
Oil
priceNatural gas
pricePower
price Currency Other Total
Fair value contracts at 1 January 2022  199  534  40  (154)  10  629 
Gains (losses) recognized in the income statement  17  508  334  215  34  1,108 
Purchasesa —  (4)  (889)  —  —  (893) 
Settlements  (73)  (210)  (32)  —  —  (315) 
Transfers out of level 3  (115)  77  23  —  —  (15) 
Net fair value of contracts at 31 December 2022  28  905  (524)  61  44  514 
Deferred day-one gains (losses)  1,245 
Derivative asset (liability)  1,759 
a Primarily relates to the acquisition of EDF Energy Services.
The amount recognized in the income statement for the year relating to level 3 held-for-trading derivatives still held at 31 December 2023  was a $631 
million  gain  (2022  $1,223 million  gain  related to derivatives still held at 31 December 2022 ). 
Derivative gains and losses
The group  enters into derivative contracts including futures, options, swaps and certain forward sales and forward purchases contracts, relating to both 
currency and commodity trading activities. Gains or losses arise on contracts entered into for risk management purposes, optimization activity and 
entrepreneurial trading. They also arise on certain contracts that are for normal procurement or sales activity for the group but that are required to be fair 
valued under accounting standards. These gains and losses are included within sales and other operating revenues in the income statement. Also included 
within this line item are gains and losses on inventory held for trading purposes. The total amount relating to all these items was a  net gain  of $19,786 
million  (2022  $7,829 million  net gain ). This number does not include gains and losses on the change in value of contracts which are not recognized under 
IFRS such as transportation and storage contracts, but does include the associated financially settled contracts. The net amounts for actual gains and 
losses relating to these derivative contracts and all related items therefore differ significantly from the amounts disclosed above.
As outlined in Note 1 - Significant estimate and judgement: derivative financial instruments, LNG contracts are only recognised in the financial statements 
when associated cargoes are lifted. The embedded value in these contracts is not recognised and is subject to underlying commodity price volatility, as 
observed during 2022 and 2023.  bp realised significant profits in 2023 as LNG cargoes were delivered.  bp generally price risk manages the exposure to 
LNG cargoes due for delivery in the near term where there is a liquid market. It does so on a portfolio basis using derivative instruments amongst other 
price risk management strategies. Under IFRS, these derivative instruments, which are subject to similar price volatility, are recorded at fair value through 
profit and loss at each reporting period, which creates an accounting mismatch in the financial statements between the accounting for LNG contracts and 
the derivatives used for risk management. For the year ended  31 December 2023, there were material gains recognized on the associated derivative 
positions due to the movement in the underlying commodity prices. For the year ended  31 December 2022, there were no material gains or losses 
recorded on the associated derivative positions. For additional information, details of management’s internal measure of performance are given in the 
Group Performance Report on page 35  and on page 338 . 
The group also enters into derivative contracts relating to foreign currency risk management activities including contracts that the group has entered into 
to manage the foreign currency exposure relating to the non-US dollar hybrid bonds to their respective first call periods. The change in the unrealized value 
of these contracts was a net gain of $632 million  (2022  $1,280 million  net loss and 2021  $775 million  net loss). Where the derivative is economically 
hedging finance debt, gains and losses on such derivative contracts are included within finance costs. Where the derivative is managing non-US hybrid 
bond exposure gains and loss are included within production and manufacturing expenses. Where these gains and losses arise on derivatives hedging 
finance debt they are largely offset by opposing net foreign exchange differences on retranslation of the associated non-US dollar debt. The net amounts 
for actual gains and losses relating to these derivative contracts and all related items therefore differ significantly from the amounts disclosed above. 
Cash flow hedges
(i) Foreign currency risk of highly probable forecast capital expenditure
At 31 December 2023 , the group held currency forwards designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships of highly probable forecast 
non-US dollar capital expenditure. Note 29  outlines the group’s approach to foreign currency exchange risk management. When the highly probable 
forecast capital expenditure designated as a hedged item occurs, a non-financial asset is recognized and is presented within the fixed asset section of the 
balance sheet. 
The group claims hedge accounting only for the spot value of the currency exposure in line with the strategy to fix the volatility in the spot exchange rate 
element. The fair value on the instrument attributable to forward points and foreign currency basis spreads is taken immediately to the income statement. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 229

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
The group applies hedge accounting where there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The existence of an 
economic relationship is determined at inception and prospectively by comparing the critical terms of the hedging instrument and those of the hedged 
item. The group enters into hedging derivatives that match the currency and notional of the hedged items on a 1:1 hedge ratio basis. The hedge ratio is 
determined by comparing the notional amount of the derivative with the notional designated on the forecast transaction. The group determines the extent 
to which it hedges highly probable forecast capital expenditures on a project by project basis.
The group has identified the following sources of ineffectiveness, which are not expected to be material:
•counterparty's credit risk, the group mitigates counterparty credit risk by entering into derivative transactions with high credit quality counterparties; and
•differences in settlement timing between the derivative and hedged items. The latter impacts the discount factor used in the calculation of the hedge 
ineffectiveness. The group mitigates differences in timing between the derivatives and hedged items by applying a rolling strategy and by hedging 
currency pairs from stable economies. The group's cash flow hedge designations are highly effective as the sources of ineffectiveness identified are 
expected to result in minimal hedge ineffectiveness.
The group has not designated any net positions as hedged items in cash flow hedges of foreign currency risk.
(ii) Commodity price risk of highly probable forecast sales
During the period the group held Henry Hub NYMEX futures designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships of certain highly probable 
forecast future sales. Henry Hub NYMEX futures are subject to daily settlement, where their fair value at the end of each day is required to be cash settled, 
such that the carrying amount of these hedging instruments within continuing hedge relationships is always zero at the end of each day.
The group is exposed to the variability in the gas price, but only applied hedge accounting to the risk of Henry Hub price movements for a percentage of 
future gas sales from its BPX Energy business.
The group applied hedge accounting in relation to these highly probable future sales where there was an economic relationship between the hedged item 
and hedging instrument. The existence of an economic relationship was determined at inception and prospectively by comparing the critical terms of the 
hedging instrument and those of the hedged item.  The group entered into hedging derivatives that matched the notional amounts of the hedged items on a 
1:1 hedge ratio basis. The hedge ratio was determined by comparing the notional amount of the derivative with the notional amount designated on the 
forecast transaction.
The hedge was highly effective due to the price index of the hedging instruments matching the price index of the hedged item.  The group did not designate 
any net positions as hedged items in cash flow hedges of commodity price risk.
The tables below summarize the change in the fair value of hedging instruments and the hedged item used to calculate ineffectiveness in the period.
$ million
Change in fair 
value of hedging 
instrument used 
to calculate 
ineffectivenessChange in fair 
value of hedged 
item used to 
calculate 
ineffectivenessHedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognized in 
profit or (loss)
At 31 December 2023
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange risk
Highly probable forecast capital expenditure  1  (1)  — 
Commodity price risk
Highly probable forecast sales  1,065  (1,065)  — 
At 31 December 2022
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange risk
Highly probable forecast capital expenditure  —  —  — 
Commodity price risk
Highly probable forecast sales  (825)  825  — 
230 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
The tables below summarize the carrying amount and nominal amount of the derivatives designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge 
relationships.
Carrying amount of hedging 
instrumentNominal amounts of hedging 
instruments Assets Liabilities
At 31 December 2023 $ million $ million $ million mmBtu
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange risk
Highly probable forecast capital expenditure  —  (1)  318 
Commodity price risk
Highly probable forecast sales  —  —  (392) 
At 31 December 2022
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange risk
Highly probable forecast capital expenditure  —  —  5 
Commodity price risk
Highly probable forecast sales  —  —  (469) 
All hedging instruments are presented within derivative financial instruments on the group balance sheet. 
All of the nominal amount of hedging instruments at 31 December 2023  and 2022 relating to highly probable forecast capital expenditure matures within 
12 months of the relevant balance sheet date. All of the nominal amount of hedging instruments at 31 December 2023  relating to highly probable forecast 
sales matures within 12 months ( 2022  349 mmBtu within 12 months and 120 mmBtu within one to two years) of the relevant balance sheet date. 
The table below summarizes the weighted average exchange rates and the weighted average sales price in relation to the derivatives designated as 
hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships at 31 December.
Weighted average price/rate
2023 2022
At 31 DecemberForecast capital 
expenditure Forecast salesForecast capital 
expenditure Forecast sales
Sterling/US dollar  1.27  1.25 
Euro/US dollar  1.11  — 
Henry Hub $/mmBtu  4.02  4.03 
Fair value hedges  
At 31 December 2023 , the group held interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate risk and foreign 
currency risk arising from group fixed rate debt issuances. Note 29  outlines the group’s approach to interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk 
management. The interest rate swaps are used to convert US dollar denominated fixed rate borrowings into floating rate debt. The cross-currency interest 
rate swaps are used to convert sterling, euro, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Norwegian krone denominated fixed rate borrowings into US dollar floating 
rate debt. The group manages all risks derived from debt issuance, such as credit risk, however, the group applies hedge accounting only to certain 
components of interest rate and foreign currency risk in order to minimize hedge ineffectiveness. The interest rate and foreign currency exposures are 
identified and hedged on an instrument-by-instrument basis. For interest rate exposures, the group designates as a fair value hedge the benchmark 
interest rate component only. This is an observable and reliably measurable component of interest rate risk. 
bp's fair value hedge accounting relationships have been directly affected by inte rest rate benchmark reform. Prior to 2023, the group's swaps which 
reference interest rates were primarily exposed to 3 month USD LIBOR. During 2023, all the swaps that previously referenced USD LIBOR transitioned to 
referencing SOFR through activation of the ISDA fallback clauses. The transition was enacted on an 'economically equivalent' basis. No other changes 
were made to the terms of swap contracts upon transition to SOFR. The hedge relationships were not discontinued and SOFR is now assessed as the 
hedged interest rate benchmark risk. The interest rate benchmark reform did not change the risk management strategy for fair value hedges. New 
derivative hedging instruments are being executed based on the new risk free rates.
For foreign currency exposures, the group excludes from the designation the foreign currency basis spread component implicit in the cross-currency 
interest rate swaps. This is separately calculated at hedge designation, is recognized in other comprehensive income over the life of the hedge and 
amortized to the income statement on a straight-line basis, in accordance with the group’s policy on costs of hedging.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 231

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
The group applies hedge accounting where there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. The existence of an 
economic relationship is determined initially by comparing the critical terms of the hedging instrument and those of the hedged item and it is prospectively 
assessed using linear regression analysis.  The group issues fixed rate debt and enters into interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps with critical 
terms that match those of the debt and on a 1:1 hedge ratio basis. The hedge ratio is determined by comparing the notional amount of the derivative with 
the notional amount of the debt. The hedge relationship is designated for the full term and notional value of the debt. Both the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item are expected to be held to maturity.
The group has identified the following sources of ineffectiveness, which are not expected to be material: 
•derivative counterparty’s credit risk which is not offset by the hedged item. This risk is mitigated by entering into derivative transactions only with high 
credit quality counterparties; and
•sensitivity to interest rate between the hedged item and the derivatives. This is driven by differences in payment frequencies between the instrument 
and the bond. 
The tables below summarize the change in the fair value of hedging instruments and the hedged item used to calculate ineffectiveness in the period.  The 
signage convention for changes in fair value presented in this table is consistent with that presented in Note 27 .
$ million
Change in fair 
value of hedging 
instrument used 
to calculate 
ineffectivenessChange in fair 
value of hedged 
item used to 
calculate 
ineffectivenessHedge 
ineffectiveness 
recognized in 
profit or (loss) At 31 December 2023
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  —  —  — 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on finance debt  (1,417)  1,356  61 
At 31 December 2022
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  26  (27)  1 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on finance debt  3,519  (3,495)  (24) 
The tables below summarize the carrying amount of the derivatives designated as hedging instruments in fair value hedge relationships at 31 December.
$ million
Carrying amount of hedging 
instrumentNominal amounts 
of hedging 
instruments At 31 December 2023 Assets Liabilities
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  —  (4)  387 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on finance debt  119  (2,102)  16,862 
At 31 December 2022
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  —  (4)  368 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on finance debt  —  (3,670)  17,032 
All hedging instruments are presented within derivative financial instruments on  the group balance sheet and are categorized within level 2 of the fair value 
hierarchy. Ineffectiveness arising on fair value hedges is included within finance costs in the income statement.
232 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
The tables below summarize the profile by tenor of the nominal amount of the derivatives designated as hedging instruments in fair value hedge 
relationships at 31 December. 
$ million
At 31 December 2023Less than 1 
year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5-10 years Over 10 years Total
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  239  —  148  —  —  —  —  387 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on 
finance debt  1,857  1,716  1,933  1,441  1,741  4,164  4,010  16,862 
At 31 December 2022
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  —  216  —  152  —  —  —  368 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on 
finance debt  1,307  2,238  1,971  2,244  1,845  4,869  2,558  17,032 
The table below summarizes the weighted average floating interest rate and the weighted average exchange rates in relation to the derivatives designated 
as hedging instruments in fair value hedge relationships at 31 December.
At 31 December 2023 2022
Interest rate 
swapsCross-currency 
interest rate 
swapsInterest rate 
swapsCross-currency 
interest rate 
swaps
Interest rate  3.49 %  7.35 %  2.48 %  6.23 %
Sterling/US dollar 1.27 1.36
Euro/US dollar 1.13 1.13
Canadian dollar/US dollar 0.78 0.78
The tables below summarize the carrying amount, and the accumulated fair value adjustments included within the carrying amount, of the hedged items 
designated in fair value hedge relationships at 31 December.
$ million
Carrying amount 
of hedged itemAccumulated fair value adjustment included in the 
carrying amount of hedged items
At 31 December 2023 Liabilities Assets LiabilitiesDiscontinued 
hedges
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  (426)  4  —  (237) 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on finance debt  (16,834)  1,512  —  — 
At 31 December 2022
Fair value hedges
Interest rate risk on finance debt  (422)  4  —  (337) 
Interest rate and foreign currency risk on finance debt  (17,003)  2,312  —  — 
The hedged item for all fair value hedges is presented within finance debt on the group balance sheet.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 233

30. Derivative financial instruments  – continued
Movement in reserves related to hedge accounting
The table below provides a reconciliation of the cash flow hedge and costs of hedging reserves on a pre-tax basis by risk category. The signage convention 
of this table is consistent with that presented in Note 32 .
$ million
Cash flow hedge reserveCosts of 
hedging reserve
Highly probable 
forecast capital 
expenditureHighly probable 
forecast salesPurchase of 
equityInterest rate and 
foreign currency 
risk on finance 
debt Total
At 1 January 2023  —  (108)  —  (104)  (212) 
Recognized in other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges marked to market  15  1,065  —  —  1,080 
Cash flow hedges reclassified to the income statement - hedged item 
affected profit or loss  —  (428)  —  —  (428) 
Costs of hedging marked to market  —  —  —  (67)  (67) 
Costs of hedging reclassified to the income statement  —  —  —  (11)  (11) 
 15  637  —  (78)  574 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance sheet  (1)  —  —  —  (1) 
At 31 December 2023  14  529  —  (182)  361 
$ million
Cash flow hedge reserveCosts of hedging 
reserve
Highly probable 
forecast capital 
expenditureHighly probable 
forecast salesPurchase of 
equityaInterest rate and 
foreign currency 
risk on finance 
debt Total
At 1 January 2022  3  (134)  (651)  (190)  (972) 
Recognized in other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges marked to market  (4)  (825)  —  —  (829) 
Cash flow hedges reclassified to the income statement - hedged item 
affected profit or loss  —  851  651  —  1,502 
Costs of hedging marked to market  —  —  —  61  61 
Costs of hedging reclassified to the income statement  —  —  —  25  25 
 (4)  26  651  86  759 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance sheet  1  —  —  —  1 
At 31 December 2022  —  (108)  —  (104)  (212) 
aRelates to the acquisition of an 18.5% interest in Rosneft in 2013. 
Substantially a ll of the cash flow hedge reserve balances at 31 December 2023 and amounts reclassified from these cash flow hedge reserves into profit 
or loss during the year relate to continuing hedge relationships. The amounts reclassified are presented in sales and other operating revenues in the 
income statement. 
In 2022 all of the cash flow hedge reserve related to the purchase of equity was reclassified to the income statement following bp’s decision to exit its 
shareholding in Rosneft. The amount reclassified is presented in net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assets in the 2022 income 
statement.
Costs of hedging relates to the foreign currency basis spreads of hedging instruments used to hedge the group's interest rate and foreign currency risk on 
debt which is a time-period related item.
234 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

31. Called-up share capital  
The allotted, called up and fully paid share capital at 31 December was as follows:
2023 2022 2021
IssuedShares
thousand $ millionShares
thousand $ millionShares
thousand $ million
8% cumulative first preference shares of £1 eacha 7,233  12  7,233  12  7,233  12 
9% cumulative second preference shares of £1 eacha 5,473  9  5,473  9  5,473  9 
 21  21  21 
Ordinary shares of 25 cents each
At 1 January  19,097,783  4,774  20,778,082  5,194  21,449,782  5,362 
Issue of new shares for employee share-based payment plans  66,000  17  55,000  14  35,001  9 
Issue of new shares – otherb —  —  165,105  41  —  — 
Repurchase of ordinary share capital  (1,262,983)  (316)  (1,900,404)  (475)  (706,701)  (177) 
At 31 December  17,900,800  4,475  19,097,783  4,774  20,778,082  5,194 
 4,496  4,795  5,215 
aThe nominal amount of 8% cumulative first preference shares and 9% cumulative second preference shares that can be in issue at any time shall not exceed £10,000,000  for each class of preference 
shares .
b165 million  new ordinary shares were issued in April 2022 as non-cash consideration for the acquisition of the public units of BP Midstream Partners LP.
Voting on substantive resolutions tabled at a general meeting is on a poll. On a poll, shareholders present in person or by proxy have two votes for every £5 
in nominal amount of the first and second preference shares held and one vote for every ordinary share held. On a show-of-hands vote on other resolutions 
(procedural matters) at a general meeting, shareholders present in person or by proxy have one vote each.
In the event of the winding up of the company, preference shareholders would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on the preference shares, 
plus an amount in respect of accrued and unpaid dividends and a premium equal to the higher of (i)  10%  of the capital paid up on the preference shares 
and (ii) the excess of the average market price of such shares on the London Stock Exchange during the previous six months over par value.
During 2023  the company repurchased 1,263 million  ordinary shares for a total consideration of $7,918 million , including transaction costs of $43 million . 
All shares purchased were for cancellation. The repurchased shares represented 7.1%  of ordinary share capital. A further 156 million  ordinary shares were 
repurchased between the end of the reporting period and 16 February 2024, the latest practicable date before the completion of these financial 
statements, for a total cost of $922 million  of which $746 million  has been accrued at 31 December 202 3. The number of shares in issue is reduced when 
shares are repurchased.
Treasury sharesa
2023 2022 2021
Shares
thousandNominal value
$ millionShares
thousandNominal value
$ millionShares
thousandNominal value
$ million
At 1 January  1,124,927  281  1,137,457  283  1,187,650  296 
Purchases for settlement of employee share plans  24,688  6  14,150  4  1,432  — 
Issue of new shares for employee share-based payment plans  71,039  19  55,000  14  35,096  9 
Shares re-issued for employee share-based payment plans  (143,575)  (35)  (81,680)  (20)  (86,721)  (22) 
At 31 December  1,077,079  271  1,124,927  281  1,137,457  283 
Of which – shares held in treasury by bp  726,339  183  940,571  235  1,037,201  259 
– shares held in ESOP trusts  350,704  88  184,356  46  100,256  24 
– shares held by bp’s US share plan administratorb 36  —  —  —  —  — 
aSee Note 32  for definition of treasury shares.
bHeld in the form of ADSs to meet the requirements of employee share-based payment plans in the US.
For each year presented, the balance of shares held in treasury by bp at 1 January represents 4.9%  (2022  5.0%  and 2021  5.2% ) of the called-up ordinary 
share capital of the company.
During 2023 , the movement in shares held in treasury by bp represented  1.1%  (2022  less than 0.5%  and 2021  less than 0.3% ) of the ordinary share capital 
of the company.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 235

32. Capital and reserves  
Share
capitalShare
premium
accountCapital
redemption
reserveMerger
reserveTotal 
share capital
and capital
reserves
At 1 January 2023  4,795  13,692  2,180  27,206  47,873 
Profit (loss) for the year  —  —  —  —  — 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (including reclassifications)  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges and costs of hedging (including reclassifications)  —  —  —  —  — 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  —  —  —  —  — 
Remeasurements of equity investments  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  —  —  —  —  — 
Total comprehensive income  —  —  —  —  — 
Dividends  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance sheet, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Repurchases of ordinary share capital  (316)  —  316  —  — 
Share-based payments, net of taxa 17  123  —  —  140 
Share of equity-accounted entities’ changes in equity, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  — 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  — 
Transactions involving non-controlling interests, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
At 31 December 2023  4,496  13,815  2,496  27,206  48,013 
At 1 January 2022  5,215  12,745  1,705  27,206  46,871 
Profit (loss) for the year  —  —  —  —  — 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (including reclassifications)b —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges and costs of hedging (including reclassifications)c —  —  —  —  — 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Other  —  —  —  —  — 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  —  —  —  —  — 
Total comprehensive income  —  —  —  —  — 
Dividends  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance sheet, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Issue of ordinary share capital  41  779  —  —  820 
Repurchases of ordinary share capital  (475)  —  475  —  — 
Share-based payments, net of taxa 14  168  —  —  182 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  — 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  — 
Transactions involving non-controlling interests, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
At 31 December 2022  4,795  13,692  2,180  27,206  47,873 
a Movements in treasury shares relate to employee share-based payment plans.
b Following bp’s decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft on 27 February 2022, $10,372 million  was reclassified to the income statement.
c Following bp’s decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft on 27 February 2022 $651 million  was reclassified to the income statement.
236 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

32. Capital and reserves  – continued
$ million
Treasury
sharesForeign
currency
translation
reserveInvestments in 
equity 
instrumentsCash flow
hedgesCosts of 
hedgingTotal
fair value
reservesProfit and
loss
accountbp
shareholders’
equityNon-controlling interests
Total equity Hybrid bonds Other interest
 (12,153)  (2,643)  —  (183)  (73)  (256)  34,732  67,553  13,390  2,047  82,990 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  15,239  15,239  586  55  15,880 
 —  728  —  —  —  —  —  728  —  26  754 
 —  —  —  488  (110)  378  —  378  —  —  378 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (192)  (192)  —  —  (192) 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (1,504)  (1,504)  —  —  (1,504) 
 —  —  38  —  —  38  —  38  —  —  38 
 —  —  —  15  —  15  —  15  —  —  15 
 —  728  38  503  (110)  431  13,543  14,702  586  81  15,369 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (4,831)  (4,831)  —  (403)  (5,234) 
 —  —  —  (1)  —  (1)  —  (1)  —  —  (1) 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (8,167)  (8,167)  —  —  (8,167) 
 830  —  —  —  —  —  (301)  669  —  —  669 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  1  1  —  —  1 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (1)  (1)  176  —  175 
 —  (5)  —  —  —  —  —  (5)  (586)  —  (591) 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  363  363  —  (81)  282 
 (11,323)  (1,920)  38  319  (183)  174  35,339  70,283  13,566  1,644  85,493 
 (12,624)  (9,572)  —  (851)  (176)  (1,027)  51,815  75,463  13,041  1,935  90,439 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (2,487)  (2,487)  519  611  (1,357) 
 —  6,914  —  —  —  —  —  6,914  —  (61)  6,853 
 —  —  —  671  103  774  —  774  —  —  774 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  402  402  —  —  402 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (225)  (225)  —  —  (225) 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  408  408  —  —  408 
 —  —  —  (4)  —  (4)  —  (4)  —  —  (4) 
 —  6,914  —  667  103  770  (1,902)  5,782  519  550  6,851 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (4,365)  (4,365)  —  (294)  (4,659) 
 —  —  —  1  —  1  —  1  —  —  1 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  —  820  —  —  820 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (10,493)  (10,493)  —  —  (10,493) 
 471  —  —  —  —  —  194  847  —  —  847 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (4)  (4)  374  —  370 
 —  15  —  —  —  —  —  15  (544)  —  (529) 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  (513)  (513)  —  (144)  (657) 
 (12,153)  (2,643)  —  (183)  (73)  (256)  34,732  67,553  13,390  2,047  82,990 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 237

32. Capital and reserves  – continued
Share
capitalShare
premium
accountCapital
redemption
reserveMerger
reserveTotal 
share capital
and capital
reserves
At 1 January 2021  5,383  12,584  1,528  27,206  46,701 
Profit (loss) for the year  —  —  —  —  — 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (including reclassifications)  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges and costs of hedging (including reclassifications)  —  —  —  —  — 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Other  —  —  —  —  — 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  —  —  —  —  — 
Total comprehensive income  —  —  —  —  — 
Dividends  —  —  —  —  — 
Cash flow hedges transferred to the balance sheet, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Repurchases of ordinary share capital  (177)  —  177  —  — 
Share-based payments, net of taxa 9  161  —  —  170 
Share of equity-accounted entities’ changes in equity, net of tax  —  —  —  —  — 
Issue of perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  — 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  —  —  —  —  — 
Transactions involving non-controlling interests, net of taxb —  —  —  —  — 
At 31 December 2021  5,215  12,745  1,705  27,206  46,871 
aMovements in treasury shares relate to employee share-based payment plans.
bPrincipally relates to the sale of 49% interest in a controlled affiliate holding certain refined product and crude logistics assets onshore US and the buy-out of the non-controlling interest in the Thorntons 
fuels and convenience retail business. .
238 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

32. Capital and reserves  – continued
$ million
Treasury
sharesForeign
currency
translation
reserveCash flow
hedges Costs of hedgingTotal
fair value
reservesProfit and
loss
accountbp
shareholders’
equityNon-controlling interests
Total equity Hybrid bonds Other interest
 (13,224)  (8,719)  (708)  (100)  (808)  47,300  71,250  12,076  2,242  85,568 
 —  —  —  —  —  7,565  7,565  507  415  8,487 
 —  (846)  —  —  —  —  (846)  —  (24)  (870) 
 —  —  (134)  (76)  (210)  —  (210)  —  —  (210) 
 —  —  —  —  —  44  44  —  —  44 
 —  —  —  —  —  1  1  —  —  1 
 —  —  —  —  —  3,099  3,099  —  —  3,099 
 —  —  1  —  1  —  1  —  —  1 
 —  (846)  (133)  (76)  (209)  10,709  9,654  507  391  10,552 
 —  —  —  —  —  (4,316)  (4,316)  —  (311)  (4,627) 
 —  —  (10)  —  (10)  —  (10)  —  —  (10) 
 —  —  —  —  —  (3,151)  (3,151)  —  —  (3,151) 
 600  —  —  —  —  (138)  632  —  —  632 
 —  —  —  —  —  556  556  —  —  556 
 —  —  —  —  —  (26)  (26)  950  —  924 
 —  (7)  —  —  —  —  (7)  (492)  —  (499) 
 —  —  —  —  —  881  881  —  (387)  494 
 (12,624)  (9,572)  (851)  (176)  (1,027)  51,815  75,463  13,041  1,935  90,439 Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 239

32. Capital and reserves  – continued
Share capital
The balance on the share capital account represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary and preference shares in issue, including treasury shares.
Share premium account
The balance on the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary and preference shares.
Capital redemption reserve
The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregate nominal value of all the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
Merger reserve
The balance on the merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued in an 
acquisition made by the issue of shares.
Treasury shares
Treasury shares represent bp shares repurchased and available for specific and limited purposes. For accounting purposes shares held in Employee Share 
Ownership Plans (ESOPs) and bp’s US share plan administrator to meet the future requirements of the employee share-based payment plans are treated in 
the same manner as treasury shares and are, therefore, included in the financial statements as treasury shares. The ESOPs are funded by the group and 
have waived their rights to dividends in respect of such shares held for future awards. Until such time as the shares held by the ESOPs vest unconditionally 
to employees, the amount paid for those shares is shown as a reduction in shareholders’ equity. Assets and liabilities of the ESOPs are recognized as 
assets and liabilities of the group.
Investments in equity instruments
This reserve records the change in fair value of investments in equity instruments for which the group has elected to recognize fair value gains and losses 
in other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. Upon 
disposal of foreign operations, the related accumulated exchange differences are reclassified to the income statement. 
Cash flow hedges
This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge. For further 
information on the accounting for cash flow hedges see Note 1  - Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Costs of hedging 
This reserve records the change in fair value of the foreign currency basis spread of financial instruments to which cost of hedge accounting has been 
applied. The accumulated amount relates to time-period related hedged items and is amortized to profit or loss over the term of the hedging relationship. 
For further information on the accounting for costs of hedging see Note 1  - Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Profit and loss account
The balance held on this reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the group.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to bp shareholders. Included within non-
controlling interests are perpetual subordinated hybrid bonds issued by BP Capital Markets p.l.c., a group subsidiary, on 17 June 2020 in euro, sterling and 
US dollars for a US dollar equivalent amount of $11.9 billion . The hybrid bonds include redemption options exercisable at the group’s discretion from June 
2025 to March 2030 (the first ‘call date’), on specified dates thereafter, or in the event of specific circumstances (such as a change in IFRS or tax regime) 
as set out in the individual terms of each issue. Coupons are fixed for an initial period up to dates from September 2025 to June 2030 at rates of 3.25%  to 
4.875%  and reset to rates determined by the contractual terms of each instrument on certain dates thereafter. The contractual terms of the hybrid bonds 
allow the group to defer coupon payments and the repayment of principal indefinitely, however their terms and conditions stipulate that any deferred 
payments must be made in the event of an announcement of an ordinary share or parity equity dividend distribution or certain share repurchases or 
redemptions. Payments made to and profit attributed to these hybrid bond holders in the year totalled $477 million  (2022  $468 million  and 2021  
$499 million ) and $473 million  (2022  $468 million  and 2021  $497 million ) respectively. The accumulated non-controlling interest at the end of the year was 
$12,066 million  (2022  $12,066 million ). On 26 February BP Capital Markets p.l.c. issued a further $1.3 billion  of US dollar perpetual subordinated hybrid 
bonds with a coupon fixed for an initial period up to 2034 of 6.45% . On 26 February BP Capital Markets p.l.c. announced its intent to voluntarily buy back up 
to $1.3 billion  of the non-call 2025 4.375%  US dollar hybrid bonds issued in 2020. Taken together these transactions are not expected to have a significant 
impact on net debt or gearing.
Non-controlling interests also includes perpetual subordinated hybrid securities issued during 2023, 2022 and 2021 by a group subsidiary. The proceeds 
from these issuances were specifically earmarked to fund the forward purchase and leaseback of an under-construction floating, production, storage, and 
offloading vessel (FPSO) to be used on one of the group’s major projects. The contractual terms of these instruments allow the group to defer interest 
payments and repayment of principal indefinitely however their terms and conditions stipulate that the group must purchase them on the occurrence of 
certain events, all within the group’s control, including the declaration or payment of a BP p.l.c. distribution after mid-May 2026. Payments made to and 
profit attributed to these hybrid security holders in the year totalled $114 million  (2022  $61 million ) and $113 million  (2022  $51 million ) respectively. The 
accumulated non-controlling interest at the end of the year was $1,500 million  (2022  $1,324 million ).
As the group has the unconditional right to avoid transferring cash or another financial asset in relation to these hybrid bonds and securities, they are 
classified as equity instruments and reported within non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements. 
240 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

32. Capital and reserves  – continued
The pre-tax amounts of each component of other comprehensive income, and the related amounts of tax, are shown in the table below.
$ million
2023
Pre-tax Tax Net of tax
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (including reclassifications)  583  171  754 
Cash flow hedges (including reclassifications)  637  (149)  488 
Costs of hedging (including reclassifications)  (78)  (32)  (110) 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax  (192)  —  (192) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  (2,262)  758  (1,504) 
Remeasurements of equity investments  51  (13)  38 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  15  —  15 
Other comprehensive income  (1,246)  735  (511) 
$ million
2022
Pre-tax Tax Net of tax
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (including reclassifications)  6,973  (120)  6,853 
Cash flow hedges (including reclassifications)  677  (6)  671 
Costs of hedging (including reclassifications)  86  17  103 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax  402  —  402 
Other  —  (225)  (225) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  340  68  408 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  (4)  —  (4) 
Other comprehensive income  8,474  (266)  8,208 
$ million
2021
Pre-tax Tax Net of tax
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Currency translation differences (including reclassifications)  (885)  15  (870) 
Cash flow hedges (including reclassifications)  (175)  41  (134) 
Costs of hedging (including reclassifications)  (84)  8  (76) 
Share of items relating to equity-accounted entities, net of tax  44  —  44 
Other  —  1  1 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of the net pension and other post-retirement benefit liability or asset  4,416  (1,317)  3,099 
Cash flow hedges that will subsequently be transferred to the balance sheet  1  —  1 
Other comprehensive income  3,317  (1,252)  2,065 
33. Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings  
Contingent liabilities
There were contingent liabilities at 31 December 2023  in respect of guarantees and indemnities entered into as part of the ordinary course of the group’s 
business. No material losses are likely to arise from such contingent liabilities. Further information on financial guarantees is included in Note 29 .
In the normal course of the group’s business, bp group entities are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings arising out of current and past operations, 
including matters related to commercial disputes, product liability, antitrust, commodities trading, premises-liability claims, consumer protection, general 
health, safety, climate change and environmental claims and allegations of exposures of third parties to toxic substances, such as lead pigment in paint, 
asbestos and other chemicals. The amounts claimed could be significant and could be material to the group’s results of operations, financial position or 
liquidity. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome in some cases, bp expects that the impact of current legal and regulatory proceedings on the 
group‘s results of operations, liquidity or financial position will not be material.
The group files tax returns in many jurisdictions across the world. Various tax authorities are currently examining these returns, which contain matters that 
could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations. The resolution of tax positions through negotiations with relevant tax 
authorities, or through litigation, can take several years to complete and the amounts could be significant and could, in aggregate, be material to the 
group’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome in some cases, bp does not expect there to 
be any material impact upon the group‘s results of operations, financial position or liquidity.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 241

33. Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings  – continued
The group is subject to numerous national and local health, safety and environmental laws and regulations concerning its products, operations and other 
activities. These laws and regulations may require the group to take future action to remediate the effects on the environment of prior disposal or release 
of chemicals or petroleum substances by the group or other parties. Such contingencies may exist for various sites including refineries, chemical plants, oil 
fields, commodities extraction sites, service stations, terminals and waste disposal sites. In addition, the group may have obligations relating to prior asset 
sales or closed facilities. The ultimate requirement for remediation and its costs are inherently difficult to estimate. However, the estimated cost of 
environmental obligations has been provided in these accounts in accordance with the group‘s accounting policies. While the amounts of future possible 
costs that are not provided for could be significant and material to the group‘s results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not 
possible to estimate the amounts involved. bp does not expect these costs to have a material impact on the group’s results of operations, financial 
position or liquidity.
If production and manufacturing facilities and pipelines are sold to third parties and the subsequent owner is unable to meet their decommissioning 
obligations it is possible that, in certain circumstances, bp could be partially or wholly responsible for decommissioning. The group estimates that for 
production facilities, approximately $16 billion  (2022 $16 billion ) of associated decommissioning obligations were previously transferred to third parties. 
While the amounts associated with decommissioning provisions reverting to the group could be material, bp is not currently aware of any such material 
cases that have a greater than remote chance of reverting to the group.  Furthermore, as described in Provisions and contingencies within Note 1 , 
decommissioning provisions associated with customers & products facilities are not generally recognized as the potential obligations cannot be measured 
given their indeterminate settlement dates.
By their nature, it is not practicable to estimate the potential financial impact or possible timing of the above contingencies as there are significant 
uncertainties that are dependent on various factors that are not within the group’s control.
Contingent liabilities related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
For information on legal proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see Legal proceedings below. Any outstanding Deepwater Horizon related 
claims are not expected to have a material impact on the group's financial performance.
Legal proceedings
Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill
Introduction
BP Exploration & Production Inc. (BPXP) was lease operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico, where the semi-submersible rig 
Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the time of the 20 April 2010 explosion and fire and resulting oil spill (the Incident). Lawsuits and claims arising from 
the Incident were brought principally in US federal and state courts. The remaining proceedings arising from the Incident are discussed below. 
Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement
In 2012 the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement (Medical Settlement) was entered into with the plaintiffs steering committee. It includes an exclusive 
remedy provision regarding class members pursuing exposure-based personal injury claims for later-manifested physical conditions (LMPCs). As of 31 
December 2023, there were 60 pending lawsuits brought by class members claiming LMPCs. 
Other civil complaints – personal injury
The vast majority of post-explosion clean-up, medical monitoring and personal injury claims from individuals that either opted out of the Medical 
Settlement and/or were excluded from that settlement have been dismissed (including more than 600 cases in which the courts granted BPXP’s motions 
for summary judgment). As of 31 December 2023, 88 cases remained pending in the district courts and around 100 appeals filed to the Fifth Circuit in 
cases where the district courts have granted summary judgment in favour of bp also remain pending.
Non-US government lawsuits
Two  class actions are pending in Mexican Federal District Courts against various bp group entities including BPXP and BP America Production Company 
by separate plaintiff classes. Although the two actions are separate, both broadly seek penalties, damages and compensation for alleged environmental, 
health and economic harm in Mexico as a result of the Incident. One of the actions also seeks an order requiring the bp defendants to repair alleged 
damage to the Gulf of Mexico.
bp has answered the complaints in both actions by seeking dismissal on various grounds including that no oil reached Mexican waters or land and there 
was no economic or environmental harm in Mexico. 
These legal actions remain at a relatively early stage and while it is not possible to predict the outcome, bp believes that it has valid defences, and it intends 
to defend such actions vigorously.
242 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

33. Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings  – continued
Other legal proceedings
FERC and CFTC matters
Following an investigation by the US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) of 
several bp entities, the Administrative Law Judge of the FERC ruled on 13 August 2015 that bp manipulated the market by selling next-day, fixed price 
natural gas at Houston Ship Channel in 2008 in order to suppress the Gas Daily index and benefit its financial position. In 2016, the FERC issued an Order 
affirming that decision and directing bp to pay a civil penalty of $20.16 million  and to disgorge $207,169  in unjust profits. Following an appeal by bp to the 
US Court of Appeals, the Fifth Circuit issued an opinion upholding the FERC’s manipulation finding on a few trades. The Fifth Circuit also found that the 
FERC did not have jurisdiction over most of the transactions identified as being violations. In July 2023, bp and FERC reached a settlement agreement that 
reduced the civil penalty to $10.75 million  and fully resolved all claims by the FERC related to the matter.
Climate change 
BP p.l.c., BP America Inc. and BP Products North America Inc. are co-defendants with other oil and gas companies in over 20 lawsuits brought in various 
state and federal courts on behalf of various governmental and private parties. The lawsuits generally assert claims under a variety of legal theories 
seeking to hold the defendant companies responsible for impacts allegedly caused by and/or relating to climate change. Underlying many of the legal 
theories are allegations regarding deceptive communication and disinformation to the public. The lawsuits seek remedies including payment of money and 
other forms of equitable relief. If such suits were successful, the cost of the remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial. Over the last 
several years, defendants removed each lawsuit to federal court and the removals were contested by plaintiffs, eventually resulting in multiple decisions by 
several Circuit Court of Appeals rejecting defendants’ attempts to have the cases moved to federal court. In 2023, the US Supreme Court declined to review 
the various Circuit Court of Appeals decisions. Accordingly, the cases will proceed in the various state courts. Due to these jurisdictional challenges, the 
lawsuits all remain at relatively early stages. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of these legal actions, bp believes that it has valid defences, and 
it intends to defend such actions vigorously.
Louisiana Coastal restoration
Six coastal parishes and the State of Louisiana have filed over 40 separate lawsuits in state courts in Louisiana against various oil and gas companies 
seeking damages for coastal erosion. bp entities were named defendants in 17 of these cases. The lawsuits allege that the defendants' historical 
operations in oil and gas fields within the Louisiana onshore coastal zone failed to comply with state permits and/or were conducted without the required 
coastal use permits. The scope and scale of plaintiffs’ damages demands are significant and unprecedented, including substantial remediation costs and 
the claimed costs for restoring coastal wetlands allegedly impacted by oil and gas field operations. 
Defendants removed all of these lawsuits to federal court and the removals were contested by plaintiffs, eventually resulting in a decision from the US Fifth 
Circuit Court of Appeals rejecting defendants’ “federal officer” jurisdiction removal grounds in one of two lead cases – Plaquemines Parish v. Riverwood, et 
al. Defendants’ petition for writ of certiorari to the US Supreme Court seeking review of the US Fifth Circuit’s Riverwood decision was denied in early 2023. 
There is a small subset of the removed cases in which the defendants continue to contest jurisdiction and await a final ruling from the Fifth Circuit on a 
related “federal officer” removal jurisdiction theory.
Following remand, the state court in the other lead case of Cameron Parish v. Auster et al., in which bp was the principal defendant, had established a 
November 2023 trial date. Before trial commenced during the fourth quarter 2023, bp entered into a settlement agreement and release with the plaintiffs in 
respect of all claims arising within Cameron Parish. The terms of the settlement agreement and release are confidential and bp does not expect those 
terms to have a significant effect on the company’s financial position or profitability. 
In addition, four private landowners have filed separate claims in the state courts in Jefferson and Plaquemines Parishes of Louisiana for restoration 
damages related to alleged impacts to their marshlands associated with historic oil field operations. bp entities are defendants in two of these private 
landowner cases.
All of the other remanded cases remain at early stages in the litigation. While it is not possible to predict the outcomes of these novel legal actions, bp 
believes that it has valid defences, and it intends to defend such actions vigorously.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 243

34. Remuneration of senior management and non-executive directors  
Remuneration of directors
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Total for all directors
Emoluments  8  8  9 
Amounts received under incentive schemesa 6  13  4 
Total  14  21  13 
aExcludes amounts relating to past directors.
Emoluments
These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chair and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned 
during the relevant financial year, plus cash bonuses awarded for the year.
Further information
Full details of individual directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 105 . 
Remuneration of directors and senior management
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Total for all senior management and non-executive directors
Short-term employee benefits  31  31  30 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  —  —  1 
Share-based paymentsa 12  31  32 
Termination benefits  —  —  — 
Total  43  62  63 
aIncludes a reversal of $14 million relating to the lapse of Bernard Looney's outstanding share awards in prior years.
Senior management comprises members of the leadership team, see pages 86-87  for further information.
Short-term employee benefits
These amounts comprise fees and benefits paid to the non-executive chair and non-executive directors, as well as salary, benefits and cash bonuses for 
senior management. Deferred annual bonus awards, to be settled in shares, are included in share-based payments. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The amounts represent the estimated cost to the group of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits to senior management in respect of the 
current year of service measured in accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
Share-based payments
This is the cost to the group of senior management’s participation in share-based payment plans, as measured by the fair value of options and shares 
granted, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits include compensation to senior management for loss of office.
Related party transactions
Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and associates are summarized in Financial statements – Note 16  and Note 17 . In the 
ordinary course of its business, the group enters into transactions with various organizations with which some of its directors or executive officers are 
associated. Except as described in this report, the group did not have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not 
make loans to, related parties in the period commencing 1 January 2023 to 16 February 2024.
244 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

35. Employee costs and numbers  
$ million
Employee costs 2023 2022 2021
Wages and salariesa 7,835  7,486  6,934 
Social security costs  943  720  733 
Share-based paymentsb 1,131  1,034  733 
Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs  370  576  457 
 10,279  9,816  8,857 
2023 2022 2021
Average number of employeescUS Non-US Total US Non-US Total US Non-US Total
gas & low carbon energy  900  3,700  4,600  700  3,400  4,100  400  3,400  3,800 
oil production & operations  3,100  5,500  8,600  3,000  5,700  8,700  3,100  6,000  9,100 
customers & productsd 19,500  36,300  55,800  8,000  35,700  43,700  6,200  35,800  42,000 
other businesses and corporate  1,400  9,000  10,400  1,300  8,500  9,800  1,400  7,700  9,100 
 24,900  54,500  79,400  13,000  53,300  66,300  11,100  52,900  64,000 
aIncludes termination costs of $96 million  (2022  $27 million  and 2021  $74 million ).
bThe group provides certain employees with shares and share options as part of their remuneration packages. The majority of these share-based payment arrangements are equity-settled.
cReported to the nearest 100.
dIncludes 33,800  (2022  23,300  and 2021  21,300 ) service station staff.
36. Auditor’s remuneration  
$ million
Fees 2023 2022 2021
The audit of the company annual accountsa 38  36  37 
The audit of accounts of subsidiaries of the company  15  15  15 
Total audit  53  51  52 
Audit-related assurance servicesb 4  4  5 
Total audit and audit-related assurance services  57  55  57 
Non-audit and other assurance services  3  —  — 
Services relating to bp pension plans  1  1  1 
 61  56  58 
aFees in respect of the audit of the accounts of BP p.l.c. including the group’s consolidated financial statements.
bIncludes interim reviews and audit of internal control over financial reporting and non-statutory audit services.
2023  includes $0.2 million  of additional fees for 2022. 2022  includes $0.3 million  of additional fees for 2021. 2021  includes $1.0 million  of additional fees 
for 2020. Auditor's remuneration is included in the income statement within distribution and administration expenses.
Tax services (in relation to income tax, indirect tax compliance, employee tax services and tax advisory services) were $nil in all periods presented.
The audit committee has established pre-approval policies and procedures for the engagement of Deloitte to render audit and certain assurance and other 
services. The audit fees payable to Deloitte were considered as part of the audit tender process in 2016 and challenged by the audit committee through 
comparison with the audit pricing proposals of the other bidding firms. Changes in audit fees subsequent to the audit tender, including matters relevant to 
the 2023 audit, have been reviewed and challenged by the Audit Committee,  before being approved. Deloitte performed further assurance services that 
were not prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements and were pre-approved by the Committee. Deloitte is engaged for these services 
when its expertise and experience of bp are important. Most of this work is of an audit-related or assurance nature.
Under SEC regulations, the remuneration of the auditor of $61 million  (2022  $56 million  and 2021  $58 million ) is required to be presented as follows: audit 
$53 million  (2022  $51 million  and 2021  $52 million ); other audit-related $4 million  (2022  $4 million  and 2021  $5 million ); tax $nil (2022  $nil and 2021  $nil); 
and all other fees $4 million  (2022  $1 million  and 2021  $1 million ).Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 245

37. Subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associatesa 
The more important subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates of the group at 31 December 2023  and the group percentage of ordinary share capital 
(to nearest whole number) are set out below. The group's share of the assets and liabilities of the more important unincorporated joint arrangements are 
held by subsidiaries listed in the table below. Those subsidiaries held directly by the parent company are marked with an asterisk (*), the percentage owned 
being that of the group unless otherwise indicated. A complete list of undertakings of the group is included in Note 14  in the parent company financial 
statements of BP p.l.c. which are filed with the Registrar of Companies in the UK, along with the group’s annual report.
Subsidiaries %Country of
incorporation Principal activities
International
 BP Corporate Holdings Limited  100 England & Wales Investment holding
 BP Exploration Operating Company Limited  100 England & Wales Exploration and production
*BP Gamma Holdings Limited  100 England & Wales Investment holding
*BP Global Investments Limited  100 England & Wales Investment holding
*BP International Limited  100 England & Wales Integrated oil operations 
 BP Oil International Limited  100 England & Wales Integrated oil operations
*Burmah Castrol PLC  100 Scotland Investment holding
Azerbaijan
 BP Exploration (Caspian Sea) Limited  100 England & Wales Exploration and production
 BP Exploration (Azerbaijan) Limited  100 England & Wales Exploration and production
Egypt
 BP Exploration (Delta) Limited  100 England & Wales Exploration and production
Germany
 BP Europa SE  100 Germany Refining and marketing
Trinidad and Tobago
 BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC  70 US Exploration and production
UK
 BP Capital Markets p.l.c.  100 England & Wales Finance
US
*BP Holdings North America Limited  100 England & Wales Investment holding
 Atlantic Richfield Company  100 US
Exploration and production, refining and 
marketing BP America Inc.  100 US
 BP America Production Company  100 US
 BP Company North America Inc.  100 US
 BP Corporation North America Inc.  100 US
 BP Products North America Inc.  100 US
 The Standard Oil Company  100 US
 Archaea Energy Inc.  100 US Bioenergy
 BP Capital Markets America Inc.  100 US Finance
Joint arrangements %Country of
incorporation Principal activities
Angola
Azule Energy Holdings Limited  50 England & Wales Exploration and production
aThere were no important associates in the group at 31 December 2023 .
38. Events after the reporting period
On 14 February 2024 bp announced that it had agreed to form a new joint venture in Egypt with ADNOC (bp 51% , ADNOC 49%). As part of the agreement 
bp will contribute its interests in three non-operated development concessions as well as exploration agreements in Egypt, and ADNOC will make a 
proportionate cash contribution. Formation of the joint venture and completion of these transactions is subject to regulatory approval. From 14 February 
2024 the associated carrying values of these interests have been determined to meet the criteria to be classified as assets held for sale under IFRS 5 Non-
current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. The carrying value of fixed assets associated with these interests at 31 December 2023 was 
$1.4 billion . The impacts are expected to be reflected in the group’s first quarter 2024 interim financial statements.
246 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Supplementary information on oil and natural gas (unaudited)
The regional analysis presented below is on a continent basis, with separate disclosure for countries that contain 15%  or more of the total proved reserves 
(for subsidiaries plus equity-accounted entitiesa), in accordance with SEC and FASB requirements.
Oil and gas reserves – certain definitions
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below:
Proved oil and gas reserves
Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable 
certainty to be economically producible – from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, 
and government regulations – prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is 
reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must 
have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
(i) The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes:
(A) The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any; and
(B) Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain 
economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data.
(ii) In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons as seen in a well penetration 
unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty.
(iii) Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, 
proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and 
reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty.
(iv) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are 
included in the proved classification when:
(A) Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favourable than in the reservoir as a whole, the 
operation of an installed programme in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the 
reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or programme was based; and
(B) The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities.
(v) Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the 
average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic 
average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding 
escalations based upon future conditions.
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves
Undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing 
wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
(i) Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production 
when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances.
(ii) Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are 
scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances, justify a longer time.
(iii) Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other 
improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an 
analogous reservoir, or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty.
Developed oil and gas reserves
Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered:
(i) Through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared 
to the cost of a new well; and
(ii) Through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not 
involving a well.
For details on bp’s proved reserves and production compliance and governance processes, see pages 342-350 .
aSee Note 1  - Investment in Rosneft.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 247

Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities
$ million
2023
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America
Subsidiaries
Capitalized costs at 31 Decembera b
Gross capitalized costs
Proved properties  29,127  —  70,404  6  17,475  20,763  41,351  6,331  185,457 
Unproved properties  369  —  3,057  1,917  2,565  2,739  1,691  737  13,075 
 29,496  —  73,461  1,923  20,040  23,502  43,042  7,068  198,532 
Accumulated depreciation  22,018  —  42,364  1,592  15,712  21,132  24,431  4,998  132,247 
Net capitalized costs  7,478  —  31,097  331  4,328  2,370  18,611  2,070  66,285 
Costs incurred for the year ended 31 Decembera b
Acquisition of properties
Proved  —  —  13  —  —  —  —  —  13 
Unproved  —  —  51  —  2  6  —  —  59 
 —  —  64  —  2  6  —  —  72 
Exploration and appraisal costsc 123  —  356  123  114  270  145  100  1,231 
Development  484  —  4,690  —  713  863  1,424  32  8,206 
Total costs  607  —  5,110  123  829  1,139  1,569  132  9,509 
Results of operations for the year ended 31 Decembera
Sales and other operating revenuesd
Third parties  206  —  665  —  1,348  3,227  4,801  1,765  12,012 
Sales between businesses  3,483  —  12,705  —  20  22  7,731  412  24,373 
 3,689  —  13,370  —  1,368  3,249  12,532  2,177  36,385 
Exploration expenditure  46  —  348  93  54  413  25  18  997 
Production costs  477  —  2,382  2  360  232  588  111  4,152 
Production taxes  13  —  136  —  229  —  1,357  44  1,779 
Other costs (income)e (171)  —  2,144  13  115  304  (35)  145  2,515 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  1,063  —  3,532  —  1,351  1,546  2,844  412  10,748 
Net impairments and (gains) losses on sale of businesses 
and fixed assets  819  (18)  701  (100)  671  1,430  (1)  (4)  3,498 
 2,247  (18)  9,243  8  2,780  3,925  4,778  726  23,689 
Profit (loss) before taxationf 1,442  18  4,127  (8)  (1,412)  (676)  7,754  1,451  12,696 
Allocable taxes  365  19  889  (3)  (565)  439  5,317  451  6,912 
Results of operations  1,077  (1)  3,238  (5)  (847)  (1,115)  2,437  1,000  5,784 
aThese tables contain information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of subsidiaries, which includes bp's share of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of 
joint operations. They do not include any costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Amounts relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, LNG liquefaction and 
transportation operations are excluded. In addition, bp's midstream activities of marketing and trading of natural gas, power and NGLs in the US, Canada, UK, Asia and Europe are excluded. The most 
significant midstream pipeline interests include the South Caucasus Pipeline, the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline and the Trans Anatolian Pipeline. Major LNG activities are located 
in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia. 
bCosts of decommissioning are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
cIncludes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
dPresented net of transportation costs, purchases and sales taxes.
eIncludes property taxes and other government take. The UK region includes a $287-million gain which is offset by corresponding charges primarily in the US region, relating to the group self-insurance 
programme.
fExcludes the unwinding of the discount on provisions and payables amounting to $390 million which is included in finance costs in the group income statement.
248 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities – continued
$ million
2023
Europe North 
America South 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)
Capitalized costs at 31 Decembera b 
Gross capitalized costs
Proved properties  —  4,432  —  —  12,530  8,590  9,947  —  35,499 
Unproved properties  —  652  —  —  125  372  —  —  1,149 
 —  5,084  —  —  12,655  8,962  9,947  —  36,648 
Accumulated depreciation  —  2,420  —  —  6,807  1,812  1,696  —  12,735 
Net capitalized costs  —  2,664  —  —  5,848  7,150  8,251  —  23,913 
Costs incurred for the year ended 31 Decembera c d
Acquisition of propertiesb
Proved  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Unproved  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Exploration and appraisal costsc —  42  —  —  7  44  —  —  93 
Development  —  584  —  —  687  844  942  —  3,057 
Total costs  —  626  —  —  694  888  942  —  3,150 
Results of operations for the year ended 31 Decembera
Sales and other operating revenuese
Third parties  —  2,159  —  —  2,070  2,550  1,716  —  8,495 
Sales between businesses  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
 —  2,159  —  —  2,070  2,550  1,716  —  8,495 
Exploration expenditure  —  41  —  —  —  44  —  —  85 
Production costs  —  169  —  —  715  427  374  —  1,685 
Production taxes  —  —  —  —  332  52  —  —  384 
Other costs (income)  —  21  —  —  257  239  8  —  525 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  —  455  —  —  451  1,344  1,144  —  3,394 
Net impairments and losses on sale of businesses and 
fixed assets  —  141  —  —  —  15  —  —  156 
 —  827  —  —  1,755  2,121  1,526  —  6,229 
Profit (loss) before taxation  —  1,332  —  —  315  429  190  —  2,266 
Allocable taxes  —  1,124  —  —  127  173  117  —  1,541 
Results of operations  —  208  —  —  188  256  73  —  725 
aThese tables contain information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of equity-accounted entities. Amounts relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and 
natural gas pipelines, LNG liquefaction, transportation operations as well as downstream and other activities are excluded. 
bCosts of decommissioning are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
cIncludes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
dThe amounts shown reflect bp’s share of equity-accounted entities’ costs incurred, and not the costs incurred by bp in acquiring an interest in equity-accounted entities.
ePresented net of sales tax.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 249

Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities – continued
$ million
2022
Europe North 
America South 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe UShRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
Capitalized costs at 31 Decembera b
Gross capitalized costs
Proved properties  30,010  —  65,870  6  16,720  20,257  —  39,899  6,324  179,086 
Unproved properties  397  —  2,976  1,875  2,507  2,535  —  1,622  659  12,571 
 30,407  —  68,846  1,881  19,227  22,792  —  41,521  6,983  191,657 
Accumulated depreciation  21,757  —  38,205  1,586  13,849  18,207  —  21,642  4,588  119,834 
Net capitalized costs  8,650  —  30,641  295  5,378  4,585  —  19,879  2,395  71,823 
Costs incurred for the year ended 31 Decembera b
Acquisition of properties
Proved  12  —  183  —  —  —  —  245  —  440 
Unproved  —  —  37  164  2  14  —  —  —  217 
 12  —  220  164  2  14  —  245  —  657 
Exploration and appraisal costsc 39  —  288  137  235  103  —  73  17  892 
Development  318  —  3,825  15  483  1,378  —  1,555  176  7,750 
Total costs  369  —  4,333  316  720  1,495  —  1,873  193  9,299 
Results of operations for the year ended 31 Decembera
Sales and other operating revenuesd
Third parties  549  —  2,101  420  2,977  3,836  —  6,551  1,588  18,022 
Sales between businesses  5,747  —  12,746  —  538  2,146  —  9,932  1,472  32,581 
 6,296  —  14,847  420  3,515  5,982  —  16,483  3,060  50,603 
Exploration expenditure  11  —  144  109  172  57  —  94  (2)  585 
Production costs  498  —  2,102  83  327  592  —  723  107  4,432 
Production taxes  1  —  194  —  513  —  —  1,544  73  2,325 
Other costs (income)e (210)  (47)  2,926  63  96  206  32  (44)  300  3,322 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  1,242  —  3,122  18  680  2,075  1  2,495  384  10,017 
Net impairments and (gains) losses on sale of 
businesses and fixed assetsf (433)  (901)  217  (3)  1,570  (1,189)  1,523  (341)  (43)  400 
 1,109  (948)  8,705  270  3,358  1,741  1,556  4,471  819  21,081 
Profit (loss) before taxationg 5,187  948  6,142  150  157  4,241  (1,556)  12,012  2,241  29,522 
Allocable taxes  4,443  —  1,409  50  1,814  886  (5)  6,651  842  16,090 
Results of operations  744  948  4,733  100  (1,657)  3,355  (1,551)  5,361  1,399  13,432 
aThese tables contain information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of subsidiaries, which includes bp's share of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of 
joint operations. They do not include any costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Amounts relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, LNG liquefaction and 
transportation operations are excluded. In addition, bp's midstream activities of marketing and trading of natural gas, power and NGLs in the US, Canada, UK, Asia and Europe are excluded. The most 
significant midstream pipeline interests include the South Caucasus Pipeline, the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline and the Trans Anatolian Pipeline. Major LNG activities are located 
in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia. 
bCosts of decommissioning are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
cIncludes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
dPresented net of transportation costs, purchases and sales taxes. 
eIncludes property taxes and other government take. The UK region includes a $256-million gain which is offset by corresponding charges primarily in the US region, relating to the group self-insurance 
programme.
fRussia impairments include other businesses with Rosneft, which were reported in the oil production and operation segment. The Rosneft impairment is reported in the other businesses and corporate 
segment. 
g Excludes the unwinding of the discount on provisions and payables amounting to $294 million which is included in finance costs in the group income statement.
h  An amendment has been made to correctly present offsetting movements in proved properties cost and depreciation, The amendment has no impact on reported profit or net book amounts of total 
proved properties.
250 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities – continued
$ million
2022
Europe North 
America South 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaaRest of
Asia
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)
Capitalized costs at 31 Decemberb c
Gross capitalized costs
Proved properties  —  3,739  —  —  12,000  7,927  —  8,381  —  32,047 
Unproved properties  —  611  —  —  120  371  —  —  —  1,102 
 —  4,350  —  —  12,120  8,298  —  8,381  —  33,149 
Accumulated depreciation  —  1,800  —  —  6,356  572  —  553  —  9,281 
Net capitalized costs  —  2,550  —  —  5,764  7,726  —  7,828  —  23,868 
Costs incurred for the year ended 31 Decemberb d e
Acquisition of propertiesc
Proved  —  1,224  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  1,224 
Unproved  —  204  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  204 
 —  1,428  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  1,428 
Exploration and appraisal costsd —  46  —  —  22  60  28  —  —  156 
Developmentf —  (24)  —  —  673  292  428  625  —  1,994 
Total costs  —  1,450  —  —  695  352  456  625  —  3,578 
Results of operations for the year ended 31 Decemberb
Sales and other operating revenuesg
Third parties  —  2,050  —  —  2,171  1,137  —  829  —  6,187 
Sales between businesses  —  —  —  —  —  —  6,052  —  —  6,052 
 —  2,050  —  —  2,171  1,137  6,052  829  —  12,239 
Exploration expenditure  —  39  —  —  —  7  13  —  —  59 
Production costs  —  148  —  —  628  246  411  191  —  1,624 
Production taxes  —  —  —  —  397  15  4,435  —  —  4,847 
Other costs (income)  —  (6)  —  —  16  152  97  20  —  279 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  —  348  —  —  462  572  535  553  —  2,470 
Net impairments and losses on sale of 
businesses and fixed assets  —  164  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  164 
 —  693  —  —  1,503  992  5,491  764  —  9,443 
Profit (loss) before taxation  —  1,357  —  —  668  145  561  65  —  2,796 
Allocable taxes  —  1,098  —  —  77  81  109  66  —  1,431 
Results of operations  —  259  —  —  591  64  452  (1)  —  1,365 
aAmounts reported for Russia in this table are bp’s estimated share of the equity-accounted entities, including Rosneft’s worldwide activities (of which insignificant amounts relate to outside Russia). 
bThese tables contain information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of equity-accounted entities. Amounts relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and 
natural gas pipelines, LNG liquefaction, transportation operations as well as downstream and other activities are excluded. 
cCosts of decommissioning are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
dIncludes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
eThe amounts shown reflect bp’s share of equity-accounted entities’ costs incurred, and not the costs incurred by bp in acquiring an interest in equity-accounted entities.
fRest of Europe development costs are negative due to a true-up of prior period spend. 
g  Presented net of sales tax.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 251

Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities – continued
$ million
2021
Europe North 
America South 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe UShRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
Capitalized costs at 31 Decembera b
Gross capitalized costs
Proved properties  30,285  —  62,901  3,385  16,351  51,157  —  45,767  6,641  216,487 
Unproved properties  363  —  2,888  2,650  2,517  3,553  —  1,690  650  14,311 
 30,648  —  65,789  6,035  18,868  54,710  —  47,457  7,291  230,798 
Accumulated depreciation  21,293  —  34,895  5,008  14,393  46,187  —  26,607  4,617  153,000 
Net capitalized costs  9,355  —  30,894  1,027  4,475  8,523  —  20,850  2,674  77,798 
Costs incurred for the year ended 31 Decembera b
Acquisition of properties
Proved  —  —  81  —  —  —  —  —  —  81 
Unproved  —  —  18  —  —  —  —  —  —  18 
 —  —  99  —  —  —  —  —  —  99 
Exploration and appraisal costsc 28  —  138  88  90  85  —  159  18  606 
Developmentd 262  —  2,541  (50)  586  1,246  —  1,849  162  6,596 
Total costs  290  —  2,778  38  676  1,331  —  2,008  180  7,301 
Results of operations for the year ended 31 Decembera
Sales and other operating revenuese
Third parties  182  —  1,700  384  1,330  2,934  2  2,469  994  9,995 
Sales between businesses  3,204  —  9,034  1  321  2,172  —  7,064  743  22,539 
 3,386  —  10,734  385  1,651  5,106  2  9,533  1,737  32,534 
Exploration expenditure  76  —  78  90  29  84  —  52  15  424 
Production costs  653  —  1,953  121  371  781  —  967  121  4,967 
Production taxes  (35)  —  108  —  266  —  —  918  51  1,308 
Other costs (income)f 170  (2)  2,506  35  50  121  37  (12)  139  3,044 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  1,260  —  3,153  83  524  2,897  2  2,190  332  10,441 
Net impairments and (gains) losses on sale of 
businesses and fixed assets  (755)  (124)  (1,599)  1,075  (693)  750  —  (2,762)  (1)  (4,109) 
 1,369  (126)  6,199  1,404  547  4,633  39  1,353  657  16,075 
Profit (loss) before taxationg 2,017  126  4,535  (1,019)  1,104  473  (37)  8,180  1,080  16,459 
Allocable taxes  302  1  1,127  171  696  363  —  3,055  404  6,119 
Results of operations  1,715  125  3,408  (1,190)  408  110  (37)  5,125  676  10,340 
aThese tables contain information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of subsidiaries, which includes bp's share of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of 
joint operations. They do not include any costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Amounts relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, LNG liquefaction and 
transportation operations are excluded. In addition, bp's midstream activities of marketing and trading of natural gas, power and NGLs in the US, Canada, UK, Asia and Europe are excluded. The most 
significant midstream pipeline interests include the South Caucasus Pipeline, the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline and the Trans Anatolian Pipeline. Major LNG activities are located 
in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia. 
bCosts of decommissioning are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
cIncludes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
dDevelopment costs in Rest of North America are negative due to a true-up of prior period spend. 
ePresented net of transportation costs, purchases and sales taxes.
fIncludes property taxes and other government take. The UK region includes a $213-million gain which is offset by corresponding charges primarily in the US region, relating to the group self-insurance 
programme.
gExcludes the unwinding of the discount on provisions and payables amounting to $325 million which is included in finance costs in the group income statement.
hAn amendment has been made to correctly present offsetting movements in proved properties cost and depreciation, The amendment has no impact on reported profit or net book amounts of total 
proved properties.
252 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities – continued
$ million
2021
Europe North 
America South 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaaRest of
Asia
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)
Capitalized costs at 31 Decemberb c
Gross capitalized costs
Proved properties  —  2,507  —  —  11,287  —  24,172  —  —  37,966 
Unproved properties  —  383  —  —  98  —  4,362  —  —  4,843 
 —  2,890  —  —  11,385  —  28,534  —  —  42,809 
Accumulated depreciation  —  1,267  —  —  5,894  —  7,389  —  —  14,550 
Net capitalized costs  —  1,623  —  —  5,491  —  21,145  —  —  28,259 
Costs incurred for the year ended 31 Decemberb d e
Acquisition of propertiesc
Proved  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Unproved  —  —  —  —  —  —  75  —  —  75 
 —  —  —  —  —  —  75  —  —  75 
Exploration and appraisal costsd —  60  —  —  8  —  196  —  —  264 
Development  —  430  —  —  539  —  2,677  —  —  3,646 
Total costs  —  490  —  —  547  —  2,948  —  —  3,985 
Results of operations for the year ended 31 Decemberb
Sales and other operating revenuesf
Third parties  —  1,677  —  —  1,637  —  —  —  —  3,314 
Sales between businesses  —  —  —  —  —  —  17,120  —  —  17,120 
   —  1,677  —  —  1,637  —  17,120  —  —  20,434 
Exploration expenditure  —  105  —  —  3  —  50  —  —  158 
Production costs  —  222  —  —  487  —  1,335  —  —  2,044 
Production taxes  —  —  —  —  308  —  9,291  —  —  9,599 
Other costs (income)  —  26  —  —  34  —  293  —  —  353 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  —  347  —  —  404  —  1,633  —  —  2,384 
Net impairments and losses on sale of 
businesses and fixed assets  —  108  —  —  (32)  —  191  —  —  267 
   —  808  —  —  1,204  —  12,793  —  —  14,805 
Profit (loss) before taxation  —  869  —  —  433  —  4,327  —  —  5,629 
Allocable taxes  —  599  —  —  684  —  852  —  —  2,135 
Results of operations  —  270  —  —  (251)  —  3,475  —  —  3,494 
aAmounts reported for Russia in this table include bp’s share of Rosneft’s worldwide activities, including insignificant amounts outside Russia. 
bThese tables contain information relating to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of equity-accounted entities. Amounts relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and 
natural gas pipelines, LNG liquefaction, transportation operations as well as downstream and other activities are excluded. 
cCosts of decommissioning are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
dIncludes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
eThe amounts shown reflect bp’s share of equity-accounted entities’ costs incurred, and not the costs incurred by bp in acquiring an interest in equity-accounted entities.
fPresented net of sales tax.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 253

Movements in estimated net proved reserves
million barrels
Crude oila b2023
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe US Rest of
North
America
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  153  —  679  —  4  24  717  20  1,596 
Undeveloped  109  —  527  —  5  2  356  1  1,000 
 261  —  1,206  —  9  26  1,073  21  2,596 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  (32)  —  (60)  —  (1)  (3)  85  (6)  (15) 
Improved recovery  —  —  14  —  —  —  —  —  14 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  14  —  —  —  —  —  14 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  17  —  —  —  1  —  18 
Production  (27)  —  (123)  —  (1)  (11)  (107)  (4)  (274) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (1)  —  —  (6)  —  —  (7) 
 (58)  —  (141)  —  (2)  (20)  (21)  (9)  (252) 
At 31 Decemberc
Developed  129  —  713  —  3  5  729  11  1,590 
Undeveloped  74  —  352  —  5  —  323  1  755 
 203  —  1,065  —  7  6  1,052  12  2,345 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)d 
At 1 January
Developed  —  90  —  5  276  127  95  —  592 
Undeveloped  —  16  —  7  244  74  1  —  342 
 —  106  —  12  520  201  96  —  935 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  6  —  —  7  15  43  —  71 
Improved recovery  —  21  —  —  4  —  —  —  24 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  22  —  —  19  —  —  —  41 
Production  —  (22)  —  (1)  (20)  (30)  (23)  —  (95) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
 —  27  —  (1)  9  (14)  20  —  41 
At 31 December
Developed  —  89  —  11  275  99  115  —  588 
Undeveloped  —  45  —  —  253  88  2  —  387 
 —  133  —  11  528  187  117  —  976 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  153  90  679  5  279  151  812  20  2,188 
Undeveloped  109  16  527  7  249  76  358  1  1,343 
 261  106  1,206  12  529  227  1,169  21  3,531 
At 31 December
Developed  129  89  713  11  278  104  844  11  2,179 
Undeveloped  74  45  352  —  258  88  324  1  1,142 
 203  133  1,065  11  536  192  1,168  12  3,321 
aCrude oil includes condensate and bitumen. Proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production 
and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes  2.2 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
dVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
254 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Natural gas liquidsa b2023
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe UScRest of
North
America
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  6  —  181  —  1  6  —  1  196 
Undeveloped  —  —  236  —  —  1  —  —  237 
 6  —  417  —  1  7  —  1  432 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  (1)  —  (14)  —  —  —  —  1  (14) 
Improved recovery  —  —  15  —  —  —  —  —  16 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  12  —  —  —  —  —  12 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Productionc (2)  —  (31)  —  (1)  (1)  —  (1)  (35) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (3)  —  —  (6)  —  —  (9) 
 (3)  —  (20)  —  (1)  (7)  —  —  (31) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  3  —  180  —  —  —  —  1  184 
Undeveloped  —  —  217  —  —  —  —  —  217 
 3  —  397  —  —  —  —  1  401 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)e
At 1 January
Developed  —  4  —  —  3  17  —  —  23 
Undeveloped  —  —  —  —  1  9  —  —  10 
 —  4  —  —  4  26  —  —  34 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  —  —  —  1  (11)  —  —  (10) 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  1 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  4  —  —  —  —  —  —  4 
Production  —  (1)  —  —  —  (1)  —  —  (3) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
 —  4  —  —  —  (12)  —  —  (8) 
At 31 December
Developed  —  3  —  —  3  14  —  —  19 
Undeveloped  —  5  —  —  1  —  —  —  6 
 —  8  —  —  4  14  —  —  25 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  6  4  181  —  4  23  —  1  219 
Undeveloped  —  —  236  —  1  10  —  —  247 
 6  4  417  —  5  33  —  1  466 
At 31 December
Developed  3  3  180  —  3  14  —  1  204 
Undeveloped  —  5  217  —  1  —  —  —  223 
 3  8  397  —  4  14  —  1  427 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 2 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities .
dIncludes 0 million barrels of NGL in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
eVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 255

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Total liquidsa b2023
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USc Rest of
North
America
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  159  —  860  —  5  30  717  20  1,791 
Undeveloped  109  —  763  —  5  3  356  1  1,237 
 267  —  1,623  —  11  33  1,073  22  3,029 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  (33)  —  (74)  —  (1)  (3)  85  (5)  (30) 
Improved recovery  —  —  29  —  —  —  —  —  29 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  25  —  —  —  —  —  25 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  17  —  —  —  1  —  18 
Productionc (29)  —  (154)  —  (3)  (12)  (107)  (4)  (309) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (4)  —  —  (12)  —  —  (17) 
 (61)  —  (161)  —  (3)  (27)  (21)  (9)  (283) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  132  —  893  —  3  6  729  11  1,775 
Undeveloped  75  —  568  —  5  —  323  1  971 
 207  —  1,462  —  7  6  1,052  13  2,746 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)e
At 1 January
Developed  —  94  —  5  278  144  95  —  616 
Undeveloped  —  16  —  7  245  83  1  —  352 
 —  110  —  12  523  227  96  —  968 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  6  —  —  7  4  43  —  61 
Improved recovery  —  22  —  —  4  —  —  —  26 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  26  —  —  19  —  —  —  45 
Production  —  (23)  —  (1)  (20)  (31)  (23)  —  (98) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
 —  31  —  (1)  9  (27)  20  —  33 
At 31 December
Developed  —  92  —  11  278  113  115  —  608 
Undeveloped  —  49  —  —  254  88  2  —  393 
 —  141  —  11  532  200  117  —  1,001 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  159  94  860  5  283  174  812  20  2,407 
Undeveloped  109  16  763  7  250  86  358  1  1,590 
 267  110  1,623  12  534  260  1,169  22  3,997 
At 31 December
Developed  132  92  893  11  281  118  844  11  2,382 
Undeveloped  75  49  568  —  259  88  324  1  1,365 
 207  141  1,462  11  540  206  1,168  13  3,747 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 2 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
dAlso includes  2.2 million barrels in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC .
eVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
256 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
billion cubic feet
Natural gasa b2023
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  360  —  2,655  —  1,077  1,021  2,594  1,684  9,392 
Undeveloped  41  —  3,154  —  748  221  2,125  407  6,696 
 401  —  5,809  —  1,825  1,242  4,719  2,091  16,087 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  (54)  —  212  —  34  42  563  100  897 
Improved recovery  9  —  254  —  —  —  —  —  263 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  206  —  —  —  —  —  206 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  5  —  14  —  34  —  53 
Productionc (100)  —  (560)  —  (439)  (462)  (594)  (284)  (2,439) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (25)  —  —  (97)  —  —  (123) 
 (146)  —  92  —  (391)  (518)  3  (184)  (1,143) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  221  —  2,672  —  931  518  3,051  1,550  8,942 
Undeveloped  34  —  3,229  —  503  207  1,672  358  6,003 
 255  —  5,901  —  1,434  724  4,722  1,907  14,944 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)e
At 1 January
Developed  —  72  —  3  974  534  43  —  1,627 
Undeveloped  —  5  —  2  606  154  —  —  767 
 —  77  —  5  1,580  689  43  —  2,394 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  12  —  —  8  4  5  —  29 
Improved recovery  —  25  —  —  22  —  —  —  47 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  132  —  —  —  132 
Discoveries and extensions  —  85  —  —  118  —  —  —  203 
Productionc —  (22)  —  —  (128)  (41)  (2)  —  (194) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  (84)  —  —  —  (84) 
 —  101  —  (1)  68  (38)  3  —  133 
At 31 December
Developed  —  67  —  4  1,027  463  46  —  1,608 
Undeveloped  —  110  —  —  621  188  —  —  919 
 —  177  —  4  1,648  651  46  —  2,527 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  360  72  2,655  3  2,051  1,556  2,637  1,684  11,018 
Undeveloped  41  5  3,154  2  1,355  375  2,125  407  7,463 
 401  77  5,809  5  3,405  1,931  4,762  2,091  18,481 
At 31 December
Developed  221  67  2,672  4  1,958  981  3,096  1,550  10,549 
Undeveloped  34  110  3,229  —  1,125  394  1,672  358  6,922 
 255  177  5,901  4  3,082  1,375  4,768  1,907  17,471 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes 99 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 62 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 36 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities.
dIncludes  430 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
eVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 257

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels of oil equivalentc
Total hydrocarbonsa b2023
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USf Rest of
North
America
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  221  —  1,318  —  191  206  1,164  311  3,411 
Undeveloped  116  —  1,306  —  134  41  723  72  2,392 
 337  —  2,624  —  325  247  1,887  382  5,802 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  (42)  —  (37)  —  5  5  182  12  125 
Improved recovery  2  —  73  —  —  —  —  —  75 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  61  —  —  —  —  —  61 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  18  —  2  —  7  —  27 
Productiond e (46)  —  (251)  —  (78)  (92)  (210)  (53)  (730) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (9)  —  —  (29)  —  —  (38) 
 (86)  —  (145)  —  (71)  (116)  (21)  (41)  (480) 
At 31 Decemberf
Developed  170  —  1,354  —  163  95  1,255  279  3,316 
Undeveloped  81  —  1,125  —  91  36  611  63  2,006 
 251  —  2,479  —  255  131  1,866  341  5,323 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)g
At 1 January
Developed  —  106  —  6  446  236  102  —  896 
Undeveloped  —  17  —  7  349  110  1  —  485 
 —  123  —  13  796  346  103  —  1,381 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  8  —  —  9  5  44  —  66 
Improved recovery  —  26  —  —  7  —  —  —  34 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  23  —  —  23 
Discoveries and extensions  —  41  —  —  39  —  —  —  80 
Productione —  (27)  —  (1)  (42)  (38)  (23)  —  (131) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  (15)  —  —  —  (15) 
 —  48  —  (1)  (2)  (11)  21  —  56 
At 31 December
Developed  —  103  —  12  455  192  123  —  885 
Undeveloped  —  68  —  —  361  120  2  —  552 
 —  172  —  12  816  313  124  —  1,437 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  221  106  1,318  6  637  442  1,266  311  4,307 
Undeveloped  116  17  1,306  7  484  151  724  72  2,877 
 337  123  2,624  13  1,121  593  1,990  382  7,183 
At 31 December
Developed  170  103  1,354  12  618  287  1,378  279  4,201 
Undeveloped  81  68  1,125  —  453  156  613  63  2,558 
 251  172  2,479  12  1,071  444  1,991  341  6,759 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
c5.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas = 1 million barrels of oil equivalent.
dExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 2 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
eIncludes  17 million barrels of oil equivalent of natural gas consumed in operations, 11 million barrels of oil equivalent in subsidiaries, 6 million barrels of oil equivalent in equity-accounted entities.
fIncludes  76 million barrels of oil equivalent in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
gVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
258 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Crude oila b2022
Europe North 
America South 
America AfricacAsia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  178  —  705  24  5  117  —  930  28  1,987 
Undeveloped  101  —  601  167  7  14  —  449  4  1,343 
 279  —  1,306  191  12  131  —  1,379  33  3,330 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  9  —  (11)  —  (1)  1  —  (40)  (4)  (47) 
Improved recovery  2  —  (2)  —  —  4  —  —  —  5 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  3  —  3 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  22  —  —  1  —  —  —  23 
Production  (29)  —  (108)  (5)  (2)  (31)  —  (112)  (5)  (292) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (1)  (185)  —  (80)  —  (157)  (3)  (426) 
 (18)  —  (100)  (191)  (3)  (105)  —  (306)  (11)  (734) 
At 31 Decemberc
Developed  153  —  679  —  4  24  —  717  20  1,596 
Undeveloped  109  —  527  —  5  2  —  356  1  1,000 
 261  —  1,206  —  9  26  —  1,073  21  2,596 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)d
At 1 January
Developed  —  100  —  10  275  3  3,045  1  —  3,434 
Undeveloped  —  21  —  12  253  —  2,540  1  —  2,826 
 —  121  —  22  527  3  5,585  1  —  6,260 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  (17)  —  1  (1)  23  4  (46)  —  (37) 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  14  25  —  —  —  40 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  42  —  —  —  165  —  152  —  359 
Discoveries and extensions  —  2  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  2 
Production  —  (17)  —  (1)  (21)  (12)  (55)  (9)  —  (115) 
Sales of reserves-in-placef —  (25)  —  (10)  —  (3)  (5,535)  (1)  —  (5,574) 
 —  (15)  —  (10)  (8)  198  (5,585)  95  —  (5,325) 
At 31 December
Developed  —  90  —  5  276  127  —  95  —  592 
Undeveloped  —  16  —  7  244  74  —  1  —  342 
 —  106  —  12  520  201  —  96  —  935 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  178  100  705  34  280  119  3,045  931  28  5,421 
Undeveloped  101  21  601  179  259  14  2,540  450  4  4,169 
 279  121  1,306  213  539  134  5,585  1,381  33  9,590 
At 31 December
Developed  153  90  679  5  279  151  —  812  20  2,188 
Undeveloped  109  16  527  7  249  76  —  358  1  1,343 
 261  106  1,206  12  529  227  —  1,169  21  3,531 
aCrude oil includes condensate and bitumen. Proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production 
and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes 3 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
dVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
eIncludes assets held for sale in Algeria
fbp's decision to exit its Russia business, including its shareholding in Rosneft, is treated as sales of reserves in place. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 259

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Natural gas liquidsa b2022
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America AfricacAsia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USdRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  8  —  132  —  2  9  —  —  2  153 
Undeveloped  —  —  195  —  19  1  —  —  —  215 
 9  —  328  —  21  10  —  —  2  368 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  (1)  —  101  —  (18)  (1)  —  —  —  81 
Improved recovery  —  —  16  —  —  1  —  —  —  17 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  1  —  —  1  —  —  —  2 
Productiond (2)  —  (28)  —  (2)  (2)  —  —  (1)  (34) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (1)  —  —  (1)  —  —  —  (1) 
 (2)  —  90  —  (19)  (2)  —  —  (1)  64 
At 31 Decembere
Developed  6  —  181  —  1  6  —  —  1  196 
Undeveloped  —  —  236  —  —  1  —  —  —  237 
 6  —  417  —  1  7  —  —  1  432 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)f
At 1 January
Developed  —  6  —  —  2  17  100  —  —  125 
Undeveloped  —  —  —  —  —  —  41  —  —  41 
 —  6  —  —  2  17  140  —  —  166 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  (1)  —  —  2  7  —  —  —  8 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  2  —  —  —  20  —  —  —  21 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Production  —  (1)  —  —  —  (1)  —  —  —  (2) 
Sales of reserves-in-placeg —  (2)  —  —  —  (17)  (140)  —  —  (159) 
 —  (2)  —  —  2  9  (140)  —  —  (132) 
At 31 December
Developed  —  4  —  —  3  17  —  —  —  23 
Undeveloped  —  —  —  —  1  9  —  —  —  10 
 —  4  —  —  4  26  —  —  —  34 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  8  6  132  —  4  26  100  —  2  278 
Undeveloped  —  —  195  —  19  1  41  —  —  256 
 9  6  328  —  22  27  140  —  2  534 
At 31 December
Developed  6  4  181  —  4  23  —  —  1  219 
Undeveloped  —  —  236  —  1  10  —  —  —  247 
 6  4  417  —  5  33  —  —  1  466 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes assets held for sale in Algeria.
dExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 2 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
eIncludes 0.4 million barrels of NGL in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
fVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
gbp's decision to exit its Russia business, including its shareholding in Rosneft, is treated as sales of reserves in place. 
260 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Total liquidsa b2022
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America AfricacAsia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USdRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  187  —  837  24  7  125  —  930  30  2,141 
Undeveloped  101  —  796  167  25  15  —  449  4  1,558 
 288  —  1,634  191  32  140  —  1,379  34  3,699 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  8  —  89  —  (19)  —  —  (40)  (4)  34 
Improved recovery  2  —  14  —  —  5  —  —  —  22 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  3  —  3 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  23  —  —  1  —  —  —  25 
Productiond (31)  —  (136)  (5)  (3)  (34)  —  (112)  (5)  (326) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (2)  (185)  (80)  —  (157)  (4)  (428) 
 (20)  —  (11)  (191)  (22)  (107)  —  (306)  (13)  (670) 
At 31 Decembere
Developed  159  —  860  —  5  30  —  717  20  1,791 
Undeveloped  109  —  763  —  5  3  —  356  1  1,237 
 267  —  1,623  —  11  33  —  1,073  22  3,029 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)f
At 1 January
Developed  —  106  —  10  276  20  3,145  1  —  3,558 
Undeveloped  —  21  —  12  253  —  2,581  1  —  2,867 
 —  127  —  22  529  20  5,726  1  —  6,425 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  (18)  —  1  1  30  4  (46)  —  (29) 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  14  25  —  —  —  40 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  44  —  —  —  185  —  152  —  380 
Discoveries and extensions  —  2  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  2 
Production  —  (18)  —  (1)  (21)  (13)  (55)  (9)  —  (117) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  (27)  —  (10)  —  (19)  (5,675)  (1)  —  (5,733) 
 —  (17)  —  (10)  (6)  207  (5,726)  95  —  (5,457) 
At 31 December
Developed  —  94  —  5  278  144  —  95  —  616 
Undeveloped  —  16  —  7  245  83  —  1  —  352 
 —  110  —  12  523  227  —  96  —  968 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  187  106  837  34  284  146  3,145  931  30  5,699 
Undeveloped  101  21  796  179  278  15  2,581  450  4  4,425 
 288  127  1,634  213  561  161  5,726  1,381  34  10,124 
At 31 December
Developed  159  94  860  5  283  174  —  812  20  2,407 
Undeveloped  109  16  763  7  250  86  —  358  1  1,590 
 267  110  1,623  12  534  260  —  1,169  22  3,997 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes assets held for sale in Algeria.
dExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 2 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
eAlso includes 3 million barrels in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
fVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
gbp's decision to exit its Russia business, including its shareholding in Rosneft, is treated as sales of reserves in place.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 261

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
billion cubic feet
Natural gasa b2022
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America AfricacAsia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  455  —  2,401  —  1,152  1,433  —  3,266  1,584  10,291 
Undeveloped  45  —  3,404  —  1,147  154  —  2,522  939  8,211 
 501  —  5,805  —  2,299  1,587  —  5,788  2,523  18,502 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  6  —  449  —  2  180  —  (575)  (165)  (102) 
Improved recovery  1  —  46  —  —  —  —  —  —  47 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  2  —  —  —  —  —  —  92  —  94 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  10  —  —  87  —  21  10  128 
Productiond (109)  —  (493)  —  (476)  (517)  —  (561)  (276)  (2,432) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (9)  —  —  (93)  —  (47)  —  (149) 
 (100)  —  4  —  (474)  (344)  —  (1,069)  (431)  (2,414) 
At 31 Decembere
Developed  360  —  2,655  —  1,077  1,021  —  2,594  1,684  9,392 
Undeveloped  41  —  3,154  —  748  221  —  2,125  407  6,696 
 401  —  5,809  —  1,825  1,242  —  4,719  2,091  16,087 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)f
At 1 January
Developed  —  130  —  4  929  689  11,399  —  —  13,149 
Undeveloped  —  11  —  4  536  133  7,279  —  —  7,964 
 —  140  —  8  1,465  822  18,678  —  —  21,113 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  (7)  —  1  162  131  53  —  —  340 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  82  —  —  —  —  82 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  14  —  —  —  575  —  45  —  634 
Discoveries and extensions  —  4  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  4 
Productiond —  (25)  —  —  (128)  (36)  (86)  (2)  —  (277) 
Sales of reserves-in-placeg —  (49)  —  (4)  —  (803)  (18,645)  —  —  (19,501) 
 —  (64)  —  (3)  115  (133)  (18,678)  43  —  (18,719) 
At 31 December
Developed  —  72  —  3  974  534  —  43  —  1,627 
Undeveloped  —  5  —  2  606  154  —  —  —  767 
 —  77  —  5  1,580  689  —  43  —  2,394 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  455  130  2,401  4  2,081  2,121  11,399  3,266  1,584  23,440 
Undeveloped  45  11  3,404  4  1,683  287  7,279  2,522  939  16,174 
 501  140  5,805  8  3,764  2,408  18,678  5,788  2,523  39,615 
At 31 December
Developed  360  72  2,655  3  2,051  1,556  —  2,637  1,684  11,018 
Undeveloped  41  5  3,154  2  1,355  375  —  2,125  407  7,463 
 401  77  5,809  5  3,405  1,931  —  4,762  2,091  18,481 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes assets held for sale in Algeria.
dIncludes 122 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 86 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 36 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities.
eIncludes 547 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
fVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
gbp's decision to exit our Russia business, including our shareholding in Rosneft, is treated as sales of reserves in place.
262 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels of oil equivalentc
Total hydrocarbonsa b2022
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America AfricadAsia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USeRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  265  —  1,251  24  206  372  —  1,494  303  3,915 
Undeveloped  109  —  1,383  167  223  41  —  884  166  2,973 
 374  —  2,634  191  429  414  —  2,377  469  6,889 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  9  —  167  —  (18)  31  —  (139)  (33)  17 
Improved recovery  2  —  22  —  —  5  —  —  —  30 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  18  —  19 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  25  —  —  16  —  4  2  47 
Productionf g (50)  —  (221)  (5)  (85)  (123)  —  (209)  (53)  (746) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  (3)  (185)  —  (96)  —  (165)  (4)  (453) 
 (37)  —  (10)  (191)  (103)  (167)  —  (491)  (87)  (1,086) 
At 31 Decembere
Developed  221  —  1,318  —  191  206  —  1,164  311  3,411 
Undeveloped  116  —  1,306  —  134  41  —  723  72  2,392 
 337  —  2,624  —  325  247  —  1,887  382  5,802 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)h
At 1 January
Developed  —  128  —  11  437  139  5,110  1  —  5,825 
Undeveloped  —  23  —  12  345  23  3,836  1  —  4,240 
 —  151  —  23  782  162  8,946  1  —  10,065 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  (19)  —  1  29  53  13  (46)  —  30 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  28  25  —  —  —  54 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  46  —  —  —  284  —  159  —  489 
Discoveries and extensions  —  2  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  2 
Productiong —  (22)  —  (1)  (43)  (19)  (70)  (10)  —  (165) 
Sales of reserves-in-placei —  (36)  —  (10)  —  (158)  (8,890)  (1)  —  (9,095) 
 —  (28)  —  (11)  14  184  (8,946)  102  —  (8,685) 
At 31 December
Developed  —  106  —  6  446  236  —  102  —  896 
Undeveloped  —  17  —  7  349  110  —  1  —  485 
 —  123  —  13  796  346  —  103  —  1,381 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  265  128  1,251  35  642  511  5,110  1,494  303  9,740 
Undeveloped  109  23  1,383  179  568  65  3,836  884  166  7,214 
 374  151  2,634  214  1,210  576  8,946  2,379  469  16,954 
At 31 December
Developed  221  106  1,318  6  637  442  —  1,266  311  4,307 
Undeveloped  116  17  1,306  7  484  151  —  724  72  2,877 
 337  123  2,624  13  1,121  593  —  1,990  382  7,183 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
c5.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas = 1 million barrels of oil equivalent.
dIncludes assets held for sale in Algeria.
eIncludes  76 million barrels of oil equivalent in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
fExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 2 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
gIncludes 21 million barrels of oil equivalent of natural gas consumed in operations, 15 million barrels of oil equivalent in subsidiaries, 6 million barrels of oil equivalent in equity-accounted entities.
hVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
ibp's decision to exit our Russia business, including our shareholding in Rosneft, is treated as sales of reserves in place.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 263

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
  million barrels
Crude oila b2021
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe UScRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  162  —  697  37  8  116  —  1,100  34  2,154 
Undeveloped  148  —  742  195  9  21  —  547  5  1,666 
   309  —  1,438  232  16  137  —  1,647  38  3,819 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  —  (46)  (32)  (3)  32  —  (121)  (1)  (171) 
Improved recovery  —  —  29  —  —  2  —  —  —  32 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  2  —  —  —  —  5  —  7 
Production  (30)  —  (113)  (9)  (2)  (41)  —  (116)  (5)  (315) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  (1)  —  (5)  —  (36)  —  (41) 
   (30)  —  (132)  (41)  (5)  (7)  —  (268)  (6)  (489) 
At 31 Decemberc
Developed  178  —  705  24  5  117  —  930  28  1,987 
Undeveloped  101  —  601  167  7  14  —  449  4  1,343 
   279  —  1,306  191  12  131  —  1,379  33  3,330 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)d
At 1 January
Developed  —  112  —  5  275  2  3,123  —  —  3,517 
Undeveloped  —  24  —  21  237  —  2,493  —  —  2,776 
   —  136  —  26  512  3  5,615  1  —  6,293 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  9  —  (5)  (4)  1  166  1  —  168 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  1 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  13  —  —  —  —  13 
Discoveries and extensions  —  1  —  2  25  —  238  —  —  266 
Production  —  (18)  —  (1)  (19)  —  (323)  —  —  (361) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  (9)  —  —  —  —  (111)  —  —  (119) 
   —  (15)  —  (4)  15  —  (30)  1  —  (33) 
At 31 Decembere f
Developed  —  100  —  10  275  3  3,045  1  —  3,434 
Undeveloped  —  21  —  12  253  —  2,540  1  —  2,826 
   —  121  —  22  527  3  5,585  1  —  6,260 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  162  112  697  42  283  119  3,123  1,100  34  5,671 
Undeveloped  148  24  742  215  246  22  2,493  548  5  4,441 
   309  136  1,438  258  529  140  5,615  1,648  38  10,112 
At 31 December
Developed  178  100  705  34  280  119  3,045  931  28  5,421 
Undeveloped  101  21  601  179  259  14  2,540  450  4  4,169 
   279  121  1,306  213  539  134  5,585  1,381  33  9,590 
aCrude oil includes condensate and bitumen. Proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production 
and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes 4 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
dVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
eIncludes 393 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 7.16% non-controlling interest in Rosneft, including 22 mmbbl held through bp's interests in Russia other than Rosneft.
fTotal proved crude oil reserves held as part of our equity interest in Rosneft is 5,490 million  barrels, comprising 1 million barrels in Iraq and less than 1 million barrels  each in Egypt, Vietnam and Canada, 
and 5,487 million  barrels in Russia.
264 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Natural gas liquidsa b2021
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  7  —  115  —  2  13  —  —  2  139 
Undeveloped  —  —  218  —  19  1  —  —  —  237 
 7  —  333  —  21  14  —  —  2  376 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  5  —  (1)  —  1  (1)  —  —  —  4 
Improved recovery  —  —  25  —  —  —  —  —  —  25 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Productionc (2)  —  (25)  —  (1)  (3)  —  —  (1)  (32) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  (1)  —  (4)  —  —  —  —  —  —  (5) 
 2  —  (5)  —  —  (4)  —  —  —  (8) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  8  —  132  —  2  9  —  —  2  153 
Undeveloped  —  —  195  —  19  1  —  —  —  215 
   9  —  328  —  21  10  —  —  2  368 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)e
At 1 January
Developed  —  6  —  —  2  12  108  —  —  129 
Undeveloped  —  1  —  —  —  —  43  —  —  44 
   —  7  —  —  2  12  151  —  —  172 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  —  —  —  —  6  (9)  —  —  (2) 
Improved recovery  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Productiond —  (1)  —  —  —  (1)  (1)  —  —  (4) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
   —  (1)  —  —  —  5  (10)  —  —  (7) 
At 31 Decemberf g
Developed  —  6  —  —  2  17  100  —  —  125 
Undeveloped  —  —  —  —  —  —  41  —  —  41 
   —  6  —  —  2  17  140  —  —  166 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  7  6  115  —  4  25  108  —  2  268 
Undeveloped  —  1  218  —  19  1  43  —  —  281 
   7  7  333  —  23  26  151  —  2  549 
At 31 December
Developed  8  6  132  —  4  26  100  —  2  278 
Undeveloped  —  —  195  —  19  1  41  —  —  256 
   9  6  328  —  22  27  140  —  2  534 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 3 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
dIncludes 6 million barrels of NGL in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
e Volumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
fIncludes 3 million barrels of NGLs in respect of the 2.3% non-controlling interest in Rosneft.
gTotal proved NGL reserves held as part of our equity interest in Rosneft is 140 million barrels , comprising less than 1 million barrels  in Canada, and 140 million barrels  in Russia.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 265

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels
Total liquidsa b2021
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe UScRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  168  —  812  37  10  129  —  1,100  36  2,293 
Undeveloped  148  —  959  195  27  22  —  547  5  1,903 
 316  —  1,771  232  37  151  —  1,647  41  4,196 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  5  —  (47)  (32)  (2)  31  —  (121)  (1)  (167) 
Improved recovery  —  —  54  —  —  2  —  —  —  57 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  2  —  —  —  —  5  —  7 
Productionc (32)  —  (138)  (9)  (3)  (44)  —  (116)  (5)  (348) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  (1)  —  (9)  —  —  —  —  (36)  —  (46) 
 (29)  —  (137)  (41)  (5)  (11)  —  (268)  (6)  (497) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  187  —  837  24  7  125  —  930  30  2,141 
Undeveloped  101  —  796  167  25  15  —  449  4  1,558 
 288  —  1,634  191  32  140  —  1,379  34  3,699 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)e
At 1 January
Developed  —  118  —  5  277  15  3,231  —  —  3,645 
Undeveloped  —  25  —  21  237  —  2,535  —  —  2,819 
 —  143  —  26  514  15  5,766  1  —  6,465 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  10  —  (5)  (4)  7  157  1  —  166 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  1 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  13  —  —  —  —  13 
Discoveries and extensions  —  1  —  2  25  —  238  —  —  266 
Productiond —  (19)  —  (1)  (19)  (1)  (325)  —  —  (365) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  (9)  —  —  —  —  (111)  —  —  (120) 
 —  (16)  —  (4)  15  5  (40)  1  —  (39) 
At 31 Decemberf g
Developed  —  106  —  10  276  20  3,145  1  —  3,558 
Undeveloped  —  21  —  12  253  —  2,581  1  —  2,867 
   —  127  —  22  529  20  5,726  1  —  6,425 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  168  118  812  42  287  144  3,231  1,100  36  5,938 
Undeveloped  148  25  959  215  265  23  2,535  548  5  4,722 
   316  143  1,771  258  552  166  5,766  1,648  41  10,661 
At 31 December
Developed  187  106  837  34  284  146  3,145  931  30  5,699 
Undeveloped  101  21  796  179  278  15  2,581  450  4  4,425 
   288  127  1,634  213  561  161  5,726  1,381  34  10,124 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 3 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
dAlso includes 10 million barrels in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
eVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
fIncludes 396 million barrels of liquids in respect of the non-controlling interest in Rosneft, including 22 mmboe held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft.
gTotal proved liquid reserves held as part of our equity interest in Rosneft is 5,630 million  barrels, comprising 1 million barrels in Iraq, less than 1 million barrels  each in Canada, Egypt and Vietnam and 
5,628 million  barrels in Russia.
266 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
billion cubic feet
Natural gasa b2021
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  306  —  1,921  —  1,567  1,382  —  3,883  2,058  11,118 
Undeveloped  51  —  3,423  —  1,964  158  —  3,641  1,029  10,267 
 358  —  5,344  —  3,531  1,541  —  7,524  3,087  21,385 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  254  —  717  1  (767)  537  —  (66)  (285)  390 
Improved recovery  —  —  247  —  —  —  —  —  —  247 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  1  —  —  25  —  116  —  142 
Productionc (103)  —  (445)  (1)  (465)  (516)  —  (489)  (279)  (2,297) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  (7)  —  (60)  —  —  —  —  (1,298)  —  (1,365) 
 143  —  461  —  (1,232)  46  —  (1,736)  (564)  (2,883) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  455  —  2,401  —  1,152  1,433  —  3,266  1,584  10,291 
Undeveloped  45  —  3,404  —  1,147  154  —  2,522  939  8,211 
   501  —  5,805  —  2,299  1,587  —  5,788  2,523  18,502 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)e
At 1 January
Developed  —  141  —  2  965  600  11,373  7  —  13,088 
Undeveloped  —  21  —  6  513  142  7,312  —  —  7,994 
   —  162  —  8  1,478  741  18,685  7  —  21,082 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  8  —  (2)  (115)  152  422  —  —  467 
Improved recovery  —  4  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  4 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  3  —  —  —  —  3 
Discoveries and extensions  —  1  —  1  222  —  151  —  —  375 
Productionc —  (25)  —  —  (124)  (72)  (478)  (3)  —  (702) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  (9)  —  —  —  —  (102)  (4)  —  (115) 
 —  (22)  —  (1)  (13)  80  (7)  (7)  —  31 
At 31 Decemberf g
Developed  —  130  —  4  929  689  11,399  —  —  13,149 
Undeveloped  —  11  —  4  536  133  7,279  —  —  7,964 
 —  140  —  8  1,465  822  18,678  —  —  21,113 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  306  141  1,921  2  2,532  1,982  11,373  3,890  2,058  24,206 
Undeveloped  51  21  3,423  6  2,477  300  7,312  3,641  1,029  18,260 
 358  162  5,344  8  5,009  2,282  18,685  7,531  3,087  42,467 
At 31 December
Developed  455  130  2,401  4  2,081  2,121  11,399  3,266  1,584  23,440 
Undeveloped  45  11  3,404  4  1,683  287  7,279  2,522  939  16,174 
 501  140  5,805  8  3,764  2,408  18,678  5,788  2,523  39,615 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cIncludes 135 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 83 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 52 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities.
dIncludes 690 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
eVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
fIncludes 1,656 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 10.20% non-controlling interest in Rosneft including 621 billion cubic feet held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft.
gTotal proved gas reserves held as part of our equity interest in Rosneft is 16,233 billion  cubic feet, comprising less than 1 billion cubic feet in Vietnam and Canada, 376 billion  cubic feet in Egypt and 15,857 
billion  cubic feet in Russia.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 267

Movements in estimated net proved reserves – continued
million barrels of oil equivalentc
Total hydrocarbonsa b2021
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USdRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
At 1 January
Developed  221  —  1,143  37  280  367  —  1,770  391  4,210 
Undeveloped  157  —  1,549  195  366  50  —  1,175  182  3,673 
 378  —  2,692  232  646  417  —  2,945  573  7,883 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  49  —  77  (32)  (134)  123  —  (132)  (50)  (100) 
Improved recovery  —  —  97  —  —  2  —  —  —  99 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  — 
Discoveries and extensions  —  —  2  —  —  4  —  25  —  31 
Productione f (50)  —  (214)  (9)  (83)  (133)  —  (200)  (54)  (744) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  (3)  —  (19)  —  —  —  —  (260)  —  (282) 
 (4)  —  (58)  (41)  (217)  (3)  —  (567)  (104)  (994) 
At 31 Decemberd
Developed  265  —  1,251  24  206  372  —  1,494  303  3,915 
Undeveloped  109  —  1,383  167  223  41  —  884  166  2,973 
 374  —  2,634  191  429  414  —  2,377  469  6,889 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)g
At 1 January
Developed  —  142  —  5  443  118  5,192  1  —  5,902 
Undeveloped  —  29  —  22  326  25  3,796  —  —  4,198 
 —  171  —  27  769  143  8,988  2  —  10,100 
Changes attributable to
Revisions of previous estimates  —  11  —  (5)  (24)  33  230  1  —  246 
Improved recovery  —  1  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  1 
Purchases of reserves-in-place  —  —  —  —  14  —  —  —  —  14 
Discoveries and extensions  —  1  —  2  63  —  264  —  —  330 
Productionf —  (23)  —  (1)  (41)  (14)  (407)  —  —  (486) 
Sales of reserves-in-place  —  (11)  —  —  —  —  (128)  (1)  —  (139) 
 —  (20)  —  (4)  12  19  (42)  —  —  (34) 
At 31 Decemberh i
Developed  —  128  —  11  437  139  5,110  1  —  5,825 
Undeveloped  —  23  —  12  345  23  3,836  1  —  4,240 
 —  151  —  23  782  162  8,946  1  —  10,065 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities (bp share)
At 1 January
Developed  221  142  1,143  43  724  485  5,192  1,771  391  10,112 
Undeveloped  157  29  1,549  217  692  74  3,796  1,175  182  7,871 
 378  171  2,692  259  1,415  560  8,988  2,946  573  17,982 
At 31 December
Developed  265  128  1,251  35  642  511  5,110  1,494  303  9,740 
Undeveloped  109  23  1,383  179  568  65  3,836  884  166  7,214 
 374  151  2,634  214  1,210  576  8,946  2,379  469  16,954 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and 
sales arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
c5.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas = 1 million barrels of oil equivalent.
dIncludes  76 million barrels of oil equivalent in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
eExcludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 3 thousand barrels per day for equity-accounted entities.
fIncludes 23 million barrels of oil equivalent of natural gas consumed in operations, 14 million barrels of oil equivalent in subsidiaries, 9 million barrels of oil equivalent in equity-accounted entities.
gVolumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
hIncludes 682 million barrels of oil equivalent in respect of the 8.09% non-controlling interest in Rosneft, including 129mmboe held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft.
iTotal proved reserves held as part of our equity interest in Rosneft is 8,429 million  barrels of oil equivalent, comprising less than 1 million barrels of oil equivalent in Canada and Vietnam, 1 million barrels 
of oil equivalent in Iraq, 65 million  barrels of oil equivalent in Egypt and 8,362 million  barrels of oil equivalent in Russia.
268 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes therein relating to proved oil and gas reserves
The following tables set out the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and changes therein, relating to crude oil and natural gas 
production from the group’s estimated proved reserves. This information is prepared in compliance with FASB Oil and Gas Disclosures requirements.
Future net cash flows have been prepared on the basis of certain assumptions which may or may not be realized. These include the timing of future 
production, the estimation of crude oil and natural gas reserves and the application of average crude oil and natural gas prices and exchange rates from 
the previous 12 months. Furthermore, both proved reserves estimates and production forecasts are subject to revision as further technical information 
becomes available and economic conditions change. bp cautions against relying on the information presented because of the highly arbitrary nature of the 
assumptions on which it is based and its lack of comparability with the historical cost information presented in the financial statements.
$ million
2023
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America
At 31 December
Subsidiaries
Future cash inflowsa 19,400  —  100,200  —  6,800  4,400  118,300  18,000  267,100 
Future production costb 11,900  —  37,500  —  4,300  600  39,600  4,500  98,400 
Future development costb 1,200  —  12,100  —  1,000  500  8,500  1,400  24,700 
Future taxationc 4,100  —  8,400  —  500  1,100  49,900  3,800  67,800 
Future net cash flows  2,200  —  42,200  —  1,000  2,200  20,300  8,300  76,200 
10% annual discountd  900  —  16,300  —  (300)  400  6,300  2,600  26,200 
Standardized measure of discounted future net cash 
flowse 1,300  —  25,900  —  1,300  1,800  14,000  5,700  50,000 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)f
Future cash inflowsa —  13,700  —  —  44,600  15,200  9,000  —  82,500 
Future production costb —  3,700  —  —  20,700  5,500  4,700  —  34,600 
Future development costb —  2,100  —  —  5,200  2,300  3,100  —  12,700 
Future taxationc —  6,000  —  —  5,900  2,100  400  —  14,400 
Future net cash flows  —  1,900  —  —  12,800  5,300  800  —  20,800 
10% annual discountd —  500  —  —  7,600  1,700  200  —  10,000 
Standardized measure of discounted future net cash 
flows  —  1,400  —  —  5,200  3,600  600  —  10,800 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities
Standardized measure of discounted future net cash 
flows  1,300  1,400  25,900  —  6,500  5,400  14,600  5,700  60,800 
The following are the principal sources of change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows:
$ million
SubsidiariesEquity-accounted
entities (bp share)Total subsidiaries and
equity-accounted
entities
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced, net of production costs  (36,500)  (6,500)  (43,000) 
Development costs for the current year as estimated in previous year  6,000  2,200  8,200 
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery, less related costs  500  800  1,300 
Net changes in prices and production cost  (50,800)  (7,100)  (57,900) 
Revisions of previous reserves estimates  2,500  1,300  3,800 
Net change in taxation  30,000  5,100  35,100 
Future development costs  (1,000)  (300)  (1,300) 
Net change in purchase and sales of reserves-in-place  (800)  —  (800) 
Addition of 10% annual discount  9,100  1,400  10,500 
Total change in the standardized measure during the yearg (41,000)  (3,100)  (44,100) 
aThe marker prices used were Bren t $83.27/bbl , Henry Hub $2.58/mmBtu . 
bProduction costs, which include production taxes, and development costs relating to future production of proved reserves are based on the continuation of existing economic conditions. Future 
decommissioning costs are included.
cTaxation is computed with reference to appropriate year-end statutory corporate income tax rates.
dFuture net cash flows from oil and natural gas production are discounted at 10%  regardless of the group assessment of the risk associated with its producing activities.
eNon-controlling interests in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC amounted to  $392 million .
fThe standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of equity-accounted entities includes standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of equity-accounted investments of those 
entities.
gTotal change in the standardized measure during the year includes the effect of exchange rate movements. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 269

Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes therein relating to proved oil and gas 
reserves – continued  
$ million
2022
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
At 31 December
Subsidiaries
Future cash inflowsa 34,900  —  154,500  —  16,400  9,400  —  151,500  23,600  390,300 
Future production costb 13,600  —  36,000  —  5,300  1,300  —  42,700  5,200  104,100 
Future development costb 1,100  —  12,200  —  1,400  700  —  8,800  1,900  26,100 
Future taxationc 12,600  —  19,800  —  5,000  1,900  —  65,200  5,500  110,000 
Future net cash flows  7,600  —  86,500  —  4,700  5,500  —  34,800  11,000  150,100 
10% annual discountd  3,400  —  38,200  —  700  1,000  —  11,800  4,000  59,100 
Standardized measure of discounted future 
net cash flowse 4,200  —  48,300  —  4,000  4,500  —  23,000  7,000  91,000 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)f
Future cash inflowsa —  12,800  —  —  49,800  20,500  —  9,200  —  92,300 
Future production costb —  2,100  —  —  22,000  6,300  —  4,900  —  35,300 
Future development costb —  400  —  —  4,900  2,800  —  3,000  —  11,100 
Future taxationc —  8,100  —  —  7,100  4,300  —  400  —  19,900 
Future net cash flows  —  2,200  —  —  15,800  7,100  —  900  —  26,000 
10% annual discountd —  400  —  —  9,300  2,200  —  200  —  12,100 
Standardized measure of discounted future 
net cash flowsg  —  1,800  —  —  6,500  4,900  —  700  —  13,900 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities
Standardized measure of discounted future 
net cash flowsh 4,200  1,800  48,300  —  10,500  9,400  —  23,700  7,000  104,900 
The following are the principal sources of change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows:
$ million
SubsidiariesEquity-accounted
entities (bp share)Total subsidiaries and 
equity-accounted 
entities
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced, net of production costs  (22,800)  (4,600)  (27,400) 
Development costs for the current year as estimated in previous year  5,500  1,800  7,300 
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery, less related costs  1,600  900  2,500 
Net changes in prices and production cost  80,800  11,100  91,900 
Revisions of previous reserves estimates  (18,300)  (2,700)  (21,000) 
Net change in taxation  (23,000)  1,400  (21,600) 
Future development costs  (2,100)  (800)  (2,900) 
Net change in purchase and sales of reserves-in-place  (4,300)  (34,800)  (39,100) 
Addition of 10% annual discount  6,700  3,800  10,500 
Total change in the standardized measure during the yeari 24,100  (23,900)  200 
aThe marker prices used were Brent $101.24/bbl, Henry Hub $6.19/mmBtu. 
bProduction costs, which include production taxes, and development costs relating to future production of proved reserves are based on the continuation of existing economic conditions. Future 
decommissioning costs are included.
cTaxation is computed with reference to appropriate year-end statutory corporate income tax rates.
dFuture net cash flows from oil and natural gas production are discounted at 10% regardless of the group assessment of the risk associated with its producing activities.
eNon-controlling interests in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC amounted to $1,216 million.
fThe standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of equity-accounted entities includes standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of equity-accounted investments of those 
entities.
gNo reserves are reported for Russia following bp's announcement that it will exit the country. The impact of this change is primarily included within sales of reserves-in-place. 
hIncludes future net cash flows for assets held for sale at 31 December 2022.
iTotal change in the standardized measure during the year includes the effect of exchange rate movements. 
270 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes therein relating to proved oil and gas 
reserves – continued
$ million
2021
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia  Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
At 31 December
Subsidiaries
Future cash inflowsa 25,600  —  108,600  8,400  10,300  17,100  —  126,800  20,400  317,200 
Future production costb 13,400  —  33,900  3,700  4,300  4,800  —  46,100  6,400  112,600 
Future development costb 1,100  —  12,600  1,100  1,300  1,100  —  12,400  2,100  31,700 
Future taxationc 4,300  —  10,100  500  1,400  2,900  —  44,100  4,100  67,400 
Future net cash flows  6,800  —  52,000  3,100  3,300  8,300  —  24,200  7,800  105,500 
10% annual discountd 2,100  —  21,600  1,700  600  1,400  —  8,300  2,900  38,600 
Standardized measure of discounted future net 
cash flowse  4,700  —  30,400  1,400  2,700  6,900  —  15,900  4,900  66,900 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)f
Future cash inflowsa —  10,500  —  —  40,100  —  370,000  —  —  420,600 
Future production costb —  3,400  —  —  16,600  —  254,000  —  —  274,000 
Future development costb —  400  —  —  3,900  —  24,300  —  —  28,600 
Future taxationc —  5,100  —  —  6,100  —  15,600  —  —  26,800 
Future net cash flows  —  1,600  —  —  13,500  —  76,100  —  —  91,200 
10% annual discountd —  400  —  —  7,800  —  45,200  —  —  53,400 
Standardized measure of discounted future net 
cash flowsg h —  1,200  —  —  5,700  —  30,900  —  —  37,800 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities
Standardized measure of discounted future net 
cash flowsi 4,700  1,200  30,400  1,400  8,400  6,900  30,900  15,900  4,900  104,700 
The following are the principal sources of change in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows:
$ million
SubsidiariesEquity-accounted
entities (bp share)Total subsidiaries and
equity-accounted
entities
Sales and transfers of oil and gas produced, net of production costs  (12,200)  (7,700)  (19,900) 
Development costs for the current year as estimated in previous year  5,800  3,600  9,400 
Extensions, discoveries and improved recovery, less related costs  1,700  2,400  4,100 
Net changes in prices and production cost  71,900  29,700  101,600 
Revisions of previous reserves estimates  (8,800)  1,000  (7,800) 
Net change in taxation  (17,900)  (7,200)  (25,100) 
Future development costs  (3,200)  (5,300)  (8,500) 
Net change in purchase and sales of reserves-in-place  (3,100)  (600)  (3,700) 
Addition of 10% annual discount  3,000  2,000  5,000 
Total change in the standardized measure during the yearj 37,200  17,900  55,100 
aThe marker prices used were Brent $69.23/bbl, Henry Hub $3.61/mmBtu. 
bProduction costs, which include production taxes, and development costs relating to future production of proved reserves are based on the continuation of existing economic conditions. Future 
decommissioning costs are included.
cTaxation is computed with reference to appropriate year-end statutory corporate income tax rates.
dFuture net cash flows from oil and natural gas production are discounted at 10% regardless of the group assessment of the risk associated with its producing activities.
eNon-controlling interests in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC amounted to $820 million.
fThe standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of equity-accounted entities includes standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of equity-accounted investments of those 
entities.
gNon-controlling interests in Rosneft amounted to $2,422 million in Russia. 
hNo equity-accounted future cash flows in Africa because proved reserves are received as a result of contractual arrangements, with no associated costs.
iIncludes future net cash flows for assets held for sale at 31 December 2021.
jTotal change in the standardized measure during the year includes the effect of exchange rate movements. Exchange rate effects arising from the translation of our share of Rosneft changes to US dollars 
are included within ‘Net changes in prices and production cost’. Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 271

Operational and statistical information
The following tables present operational and statistical information related to production, drilling, productive wells and acreage. Figures include amounts 
attributable to assets held for sale.
Crude oil and natural gas production
The following table shows crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production for the years ended 31 December 2023 , 2022  and 2021 .
Production for the yeara b
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia Australasia Total
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiacRest of
Asia
Subsidiariesd
Crude oilethousand barrels per day
2023  74  —  335  —  4  29  —  289  10  741 
2022  80  —  296  15  5  83  —  307  12  797 
2021  82  —  308  25  5  110  —  318  13  860 
Natural gas liquids thousand barrels per day
2023  5  —  88  —  4  2  —  4  2  104 
2022  5  —  76  —  4  6  —  —  2  93 
2021  5  —  70  —  4  7  —  —  2  88 
Natural gasfmillion cubic feet per day
2023  247  —  1,486  —  1,191  1,236  —  1,578  774  6,512 
2022  271  —  1,291  —  1,276  1,353  —  1,485  752  6,428 
2021  236  —  1,197  2  1,260  1,332  —  1,279  760  6,067 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)
Crude oilethousand barrels per day
2023  —  —  —  —  57  82  —  62  —  261 
2022  —  47  —  —  59  33  150  25  —  314 
2021  —  48  —  —  55  1  887  —  —  991 
Natural gas liquids  thousand barrels per day
2023  —  3  —  —  1  6  —  —  —  9 
2022  —  2  —  —  1  5  —  —  —  9 
2021  —  3  —  —  1  6  3  —  —  12 
Natural gasf million cubic feet per day
2023  —  58  —  —  299  74  —  —  —  432 
2022  —  66  —  —  296  64  248  —  —  674 
2021  —  66  —  —  284  77  1,423  —  —  1,849 
aProduction excludes royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales 
arrangements independently.
bBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
cAmounts reported for Russia include bp’s share of Rosneft worldwide activities, including insignificant amounts outside Russia.
dAll of the oil and liquid production from Canada is bitumen.
eCrude oil includes condensate.
fNatural gas production excludes gas consumed in operations.
272 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Operational and statistical information – continued
Productive oil and gas wells and acreage
The following tables show the number of gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells and total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and 
natural gas acreage in which the group and its equity-accounted entities had interests as at 31 December 2023 . A ‘gross’ well or acre is one in which a 
whole or fractional working interest is owned, while the number of ‘net’ wells or acres is the sum of the whole or fractional working interests in gross wells 
or acres. Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of production. Developed acreage is the acreage within the boundary of a field, on which 
development wells have been drilled, which could produce the reserves; while undeveloped acres are those on which wells have not been drilled or 
completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities, whether or not such acres contain proved reserves.
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia Australasia Totala
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America
Number of productive wells at 31 December 2023
Oil wellsb– gross  114  123  1,390  8  5,367  864  2,979  —  10,845 
– net  65  20  736  2  2,644  79  619  —  4,166 
Gas wellsc– gross  36  10  4,681  —  1,184  91  172  100  6,274 
– net  8  2  2,520  —  413  42  65  23  3,073 
Oil and natural gas acreage at 31 December 2023 thousands of acres
Developed – gross  71  82  1,903  8  1,330  690  1,334  838  6,255 
– net  41  13  1,024  1  381  120  277  157  2,014 
Undevelopedd– gross  561  333  3,900  11,011  9,402  18,538  5,604  9,660  59,010 
– net  410  53  3,320  6,966  4,193  8,631  1,743  6,676  31,991 
aBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
bIncludes approximately  166 gross  (32 net) multiple completion wells (more than one formation producing into the same well bore).
cIncludes approximately  116 gross  (94 net) multiple completion wells. If one of the multiple completions in a well is an oil completion, the well is classified as an oil well.
dUndeveloped acreage includes leases and concessions.
Net oil and gas wells completed or abandoned
The following table shows the number of net productive and dry exploratory and development oil and natural gas wells completed or abandoned in the 
years indicated by the group and its equity-accounted entities. Productive wells include wells in which hydrocarbons were encountered and the drilling or 
completion of which, in the case of exploratory wells, has been suspended pending further drilling or evaluation. A dry well is one found to be incapable of 
producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion.
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia Australasia Totala
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
2023
Exploratory
Productive  —  —  2.0  —  —  —  —  0.8  0.4  3.2 
Dry  0.5  —  0.8  0.5  —  —  —  0.2  —  2.0 
Development
Productive  2.6  0.6  141.9  0.1  6.2  4.2  —  39.7  0.4  195.6 
Dry  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  0.4  —  0.4 
2022
Exploratory
Productive  —  —  0.5  1.0  1.0  0.6  —  0.5  0.3  4.0 
Dry  —  —  —  1.2  0.3  0.1  —  0.8  —  2.3 
Development
Productive  0.9  1.5  137.2  0.3  71.4  2.8  —  39.0  1.4  254.5 
Dry  —  —  1.1  —  0.5  0.1  —  1.1  —  2.8 
2021
Exploratory
Productive  —  —  0.2  —  1.1  1.4  16.3  1.2  —  20.2 
Dry  —  —  0.6  —  —  1.4  —  0.3  0.4  2.7 
Development
Productive  2.4  0.6  107.2  0.8  69.4  2.5  285.2  27.3  1.3  496.6 
Dry  —  0.1  7.3  —  0.7  —  —  0.1  —  8.2 
aBecause of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.Financial statements
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 273

Operational and statistical information – continued
Drilling and production activities in progress
The following table shows the number of exploratory and development oil and natural gas wells in the process of being drilled by the group and its equity-
accounted entities as of 31 December 2023 . Suspended development wells and long-term suspended exploratory wells are also included in the table.
Europe North 
AmericaSouth 
AmericaAfrica Asia Australasia Totala
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America
At 31 December 2023
Exploratory
Gross  —  —  —  —  —  1.0  10.0  —  11.0 
Net  —  —  —  —  —  0.1  1.9  —  2.0 
Development
Gross  5.0  3.1  161.0  —  25.0  9.0  97.0  1.0  301.1 
Net  3.1  0.5  118.7  —  4.6  3.1  18.9  0.4  149.3 
a Because of rounding, some totals may not exactly agree with the sum of their component parts.
274 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Parent  company financial statements of BP p.l.c. 
Company income statement
For the year ended 31 December $ million
 Note 2023 2022
Dividend income  18,133  29,005 
Interest and other income  6,007  2,115 
Total income  24,140  31,120 
Administrative and other expenses  (747)  (563) 
Net impairment of fixed asset investments 2 —  3,433 
Loss on termination of operations  (8)  — 
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation  23,385  33,990 
Interest payable to subsidiaries  (9,280)  (3,567) 
Net finance income (expense) relating to pensions  4  391  165 
Profit (loss) before taxation  14,496  30,588 
Taxation  6  (126)  (48) 
Profit (loss) for the year  14,370  30,540 
Company statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December $ million
Note 2023 2022
Profit (loss) for the year 14,370  30,540 
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
  Currency translation differences  407  (1,037) 
 407  (1,037) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
  Remeasurements of the net pension liability or asset  4  (1,877)  (1,530) 
  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified  6  513  931 
 (1,364) (599)
Other comprehensive income  (957)  (1,636) 
Total comprehensive income  13,413  28,904 Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 275

Company balance sheet 
At 31 December   $ million
  Note 2023 2022
Non-current assets      
Investments   2  177,741  165,483 
Receivables   3  853  772 
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses   4  6,631  7,716 
  185,225  173,971 
Current assets  
Receivables   3  5,864  10,646 
Cash and cash equivalents   208  85 
  6,072  10,731 
Total assets   191,297  184,702 
Current liabilities  
Payables   5  11,707  5,864 
Net current (liabilities)/assets  (5,635)  4,867 
Total assets less current liabilities  179,590  178,838 
Non-current liabilities  
Payables   5  53,583  53,489 
Deferred tax liabilities   6  2,305  2,692 
Defined benefit pension plan deficits   4  143  128 
  56,031  56,309 
Total liabilities   67,738  62,173 
Net assets   123,559  122,529 
Capital and reservesa 
Profit and loss account  
Brought forward   88,541  73,324 
Profit (loss) for the year   14,370  30,540 
Other movements   (14,718)  (15,323) 
   88,193  88,541 
Called-up share capital   7  4,496  4,795 
Share premium account   13,815  13,692 
Other capital and reserves   17,055  15,501 
  123,559  122,529 
a See Statement of changes in equity on page 277  for further information.
The financial statements on pages 275-334  were approved and signed by the chief executive officer on 8 March 2024  having been duly authorized to do so 
by the board of directors: 
Murray Auchincloss Chief executive officer
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
276 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Company statement of changes in equitya
  $ million
Share capitalShare 
premium 
accountCapital 
redemption 
reserveMerger 
reserveTreasury 
sharesForeign 
currency 
translation 
reserveProfit and loss 
account Total equity
At 1 January 2023   4,795  13,692  2,180  26,509  (12,154)  (1,034)  88,541  122,529 
Profit (loss) for the year   —  —  —  —  —  —  14,370  14,370 
Other comprehensive income   —  —  —  —  —  407  (1,364)  (957) 
Total comprehensive income   —  —  —  —  —  407  13,006  13,413 
Dividends   —  —  —  —  —  —  (4,830)  (4,830) 
Repurchases of ordinary share capitala (316)  —  316  —  —  —  (8,167)  (8,167) 
Share-based payments, net of tax   17  123  —  —  831  —  (357)  614 
At 31 December 2023   4,496  13,815  2,496  26,509  (11,323)  (627)  88,193  123,559 
 
At 1 January 2022   5,215  12,745  1,705  26,509  (12,623)  3  73,324  106,878 
Profit (loss) for the year   —  —  —  —  —  —  30,540  30,540 
Other comprehensive income   —  —  —  —  —  (1,037)  (599)  (1,636) 
Total comprehensive income   —  —  —  —  —  (1,037)  29,941  28,904 
Dividends   —  —  —  —  —  —  (4,365)  (4,365) 
Repurchases of ordinary share capital (475) — 475 — — — (10,493)  (10,493) 
Share-based payments, net of tax   14  168  —  —  469  —  134  785 
New issue of ordinary share capital  41  779  —  —  —  —  —  820 
At 31 December 2022   4,795  13,692  2,180  26,509  (12,154)  (1,034)  88,541  122,529 
aSee Note 7  for further information.Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 277

Notes on financial statements
1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions
Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ (FRS 101) 
The financial statements of BP p.l.c. for the year ended 31 December 2023  were approved and signed by the chief executive officer on 8 March 2024  
having been duly authorized to do so by the board of directors. The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 
100 ‘Application of Financial Reporting Requirements’ (FRS 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, these financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting 
standards. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration 
given in exchange for the assets. 
As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available in relation to: 
(a) the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements’; 
(b) the requirements in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 'Presentation of Financial Statements' to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) 
of IAS 1.
(c) the requirements of IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’; 
(d) the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ in relation to standards not yet 
effective; 
(e) the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’; 
(f) the requirements of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, 
provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member;
(g) the requirements of paragraphs 130(f)(ii), 130(f)(iii), 134(d) to 134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets;
(h) the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 'Share-based Payment';
(i)  the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’; and
(j) the requirement of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114,115, 118, 119(a) to (c), 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 'Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers'. 
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements of BP p.l.c. 
The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars ($ million), except where otherwise indicated. 
In May 2023, the IASB issued International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules - Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes to clarify the application of IAS 12 
to tax legislation enacted or substantively enacted to implement Pillar Two of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base 
Erosion and Profit Shifting project, which aims to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalisation of the economy. The amendments include a 
mandatory temporary exception from accounting for deferred tax on such tax law. In July 2023, the UK government enacted legislation to implement the 
Pillar Two rules. The legislation is effective for bp from 1 January 2024 and includes an income inclusion rule and a domestic minimum tax, which together 
are designed to ensure a minimum effective tax rate of 15%. Similar legislation is being enacted by other governments around the world. In line with the 
amendments to IAS 12, the exception from accounting for deferred tax for the Pillar Two rules has been applied and there are no impacts on the financial 
statements for 2023. Based on an assessment of historic data and forecasts for the year ending 31 December 2024, the company does not expect a 
material exposure to Pillar Two income taxes for the year ending 31 December 2024.
There are no new IFRS standards or amended standards or interpretations adopted from 1 January 2023 onwards, including the amendments to IAS 12 
'Income Taxes' described above and IFRS 17 'Insurance Contracts,' that have a significant impact on the financial statements.  Further, there are no new or 
amended standards not yet adopted that are expected to have a material impact.
Material accounting policy information: use of judgements, estimates and assumptions 
Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements is the need for bp management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used. The accounting judgements 
and estimates that have a significant impact on the results of the group are set out in boxed text below, and should be read in conjunction with the 
information provided in the Notes on financial statements.
The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation in the preparation of the financial statements are the recoverability of investment 
carrying values and pensions. Judgements and estimates, not all of which are significant, made in assessing the impact of the current economic and 
geopolitical environment, and climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy on the financial statements are also set out in boxed text 
below. Where an estimate has a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial year this is specifically noted within the boxed text.
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
278 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Judgements and estimates made in assessing the impact of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy
Climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy were considered in preparing the financial statements. These may have significant impacts 
on the currently reported amounts of the company'’s assets and liabilities discussed below .
Impairment of investments
The recoverable amounts of the company’s investments in subsidiaries are closely linked to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and 
goodwill in the individual subsidiaries. The energy transition is likely to impact the future prices of commodities such as oil and natural gas which in turn 
may affect the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and goodwill in the oil and gas industry. Management’s best estimate of oil and 
natural gas price assumptions for value-in-use impairment testing for all subsidiaries were revised during 2023. Prices disclosed are in real 2022 terms. 
The near term Brent oil assumption was held constant at $70 per barrel to reflect near-term supply constraints before declining after 2030 to $50 per 
barrel by 2050 continuing to reflect the assumption that as the energy system decarbonizes, falling oil demand will cause oil prices to decline. The price 
assumptions for Henry Hub gas up to 2050 were held constant at $4.00  per mmBtu reflecting an assumption that declining domestic demand in the US 
is offset by higher LNG exports.  The revised assumptions for Brent oil and Henry Hub gas sit within the range of external scenarios considered by 
management and are in line with a range of transition paths consistent with the temperature goal of the Paris climate change agreement, of holding the 
increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C 
above pre-industrial levels.
Judgements and estimates made in assessing the impact of the geopolitical and economic environment
In preparing the financial statements, the following areas involving judgement and estimates were identified as most relevant with regards to the impact 
of the current geopolitical and economic environment. 
Going concern
Liquidity and financing is managed within bp under pooled group-wide arrangements which include the company. As part of assuring the going concern 
basis of preparation for the company, the ability and intent of the bp group to support the company has been taken into consideration. The most recent 
bp group financial statements (see pages 137 to 246) continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. Forecast liquidity has been assessed under a 
number of stressed scenarios, including a significant decline in oil prices over the 12-month period. Reverse stress tests performed indicated that the 
group will continue to operate as a going concern for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements even if the 
Brent price fell to zero. In addition, group management of bp have confirmed that the existing intra-group funding and liquidity arrangements as currently 
constituted are expected to continue for the foreseeable future, being no less than twelve months from the approval of these financial statements. No 
material uncertainties over going concern or significant judgements or estimates in the assessment were identified. Accordingly, the company will be 
able to draw on support from the bp group for the foreseeable future and these financial statements have therefore been prepared on the going concern 
basis. 
Pensions 
The volatility in the financial markets during 2023 impacted the assumptions used for determining the fair value of plan assets and the present value of 
defined benefit obligations in the company’s defined benefit pension plans. See significant estimate: pensions and Note 4 for further information.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost. The company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any such indication of impairment exists, the company makes an estimate of its recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount. Where these circumstances have reversed, the impairment previously made is reversed to the extent of the original cost of the 
investment. 
Significant judgements and estimates: recoverability of asset carrying values 
Determination as to whether, and by how much, an investment holding company chain (defined as each direct subsidiary and its own investments), is 
impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as the effects of inflation and deflation on operating expenses, discount 
rates, capital expenditure, carbon pricing (where applicable), production profiles, reserves and resources, and future commodity prices, including the 
outlook for global or regional market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and refined products. Determination as to whether, and by 
how much, an asset or CGU is impaired involves similar estimates.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value less costs of disposal may be 
determined based on expected sales proceeds or similar recent market transaction data. Details of impairment charges recognized in the profit and loss 
account and the carrying amounts of investments are shown in Note 2. The estimates for assumptions made in impairment tests in 2023 relating to 
discount rates and oil and gas properties are discussed below. It is impracticable to reliably determine the extent of any impacts of changes in the 
assumptions used to determine the recoverable amounts of the company’s investments given the diverse characteristics of the underlying assets and 
the interdependency of the various inputs. Changes in the economic environment including as a result of the energy transition or other facts and 
circumstances may necessitate revisions to these assumptions and could result in a material change to the carrying values of the group's assets within 
the next financial year. Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 279

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Discount rates
For discounted cash flow calculations, future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the CGU. Value-in-use calculations are typically discounted 
using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the cost of funding the Company derived from an established model, adjusted to a pre-tax basis and 
incorporating a market participant capital structure and country risk premiums. Fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow calculations use a 
post-tax discount rate.
The discount rates applied in impairment tests are reassessed each year and, in 2023, the post-tax discount rate was 8% (2022 7%) other than for 
renewable power assets. Where the CGU is located in a country that was judged to be higher risk, an additional premium of 1% to 4% was reflected in the 
post-tax discount rate (2022 1% to 2%). The judgement of classifying a country as higher risk and the applicable premium takes into account various 
economic and geopolitical factors. The pre-tax discount rate, other than for renewable power assets, typically ranged from 9% to 20% (2022 7% to 18%) 
depending on the risk premium and applicable tax rate in the geographic location of the CGU. For renewable power assets tested on a value-in-use basis 
in 2023 (including those in equity accounted entities), where the risk profile of expected cash flows supports a lower rate, tests were performed using a 
post-tax WACC-based discount rate of 6.5%. For assets tested in 2022, the tests  were performed on a fair value less costs of disposal basis using a 
post-tax cost of equity-based discount rate of 6%.
Oil and natural gas properties
For upstream oil and natural gas properties in subsidiaries, expected future cash flows are estimated using management’s best estimate of future oil and 
natural gas prices, and production and reserves and certain resources volumes. The estimated future level of production in all impairment tests is based 
on assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, field decline rates, current fiscal regimes and other factors. A 
change in the discount rate, reserves, resources or the oil and gas price assumptions in the next financial year may result in a recoverable amount of one 
or more of these assets above or below the current carrying amount and therefore there is a risk of impairment reversals or charges in that period. 
Management consider that reasonably possible changes in the discount rate or forecast revenue, arising from a change in oil and natural gas prices and/
or production could result in a material change in their carrying amounts within the next financial year.
Oil and natural gas prices
The price assumptions used for value in use impairment testing are based on those used for investment appraisal. bp’s carbon emissions cost 
assumptions and their interrelationship with oil and gas prices are described in 'Judgements and estimates made in assessing the impact of climate 
change and the transition to a lower carbon economy' on page 170. The investment appraisal price assumptions are recommended by the senior vice 
president economic & energy insights after considering a range of external price sets and supply and demand profiles associated with various energy 
transition scenarios. They are reviewed and approved by management. As a result of the current uncertainty over the pace of transition to lower-carbon 
supply and demand and the social, political and environmental actions that will be taken to meet the goals of the Paris climate change agreement, the 
scenarios considered include those where those goals are met as well as those where they are not met. 
During the year, bp's price assumptions applied in value-in-use impairment testing (in real 2022 terms) for the near term Brent oil assumption was held 
constant at $70 per barrel to reflect near term supply constraints before declining after 2030 to $50 per barrel by 2050 continuing to reflect the 
assumption that as the energy system decarbonises, falling oil demand will cause oil prices to decline. The price assumptions for Henry Hub gas up to 
2050 were held constant at $4.00 per mmBtu reflecting an assumption that declining domestic demand in the US is offset by higher LNG exports. These 
price assumptions are derived from the central case investment appraisal assumptions, adjusted where applicable to reflect short-term market 
conditions (see page 30). A summary of the group’s revised price assumptions for Brent oil and Henry Hub gas, applied in 2023 and 2022, in real 2022 
terms, is provided below. The assumptions represent management’s best estimate of future prices at the balance sheet date, which sit within the range 
of external scenarios considered as appropriate for the purpose. They are considered by bp to be in line with a range of transition paths consistent with 
the temperature goal of the Paris climate change agreement, of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-
industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. However, they do not correspond to any 
specific Paris-consistent scenario. An inflation rate of 2% (2022 2%) is applied to determine the price assumptions in nominal terms.
2023 price assumptions2024 2025 2030 2040 2050
Brent oil ($/bbl) 70 70 70 63 50
Henry Hub gas ($/mmBtu) 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00
2022 price assumptions2023 2025 2030 2040 2050
Brent oil ($/bbl) 78 71 71 59 46
Henry Hub gas ($/mmBtu) 4.08 4.08 4.08 3.57 3.57
 Oil and natural gas reserves
The majority of bp's reserves and resources that support the carrying value of the company’s subsidiaries holding upstream oil and gas properties are 
expected to be produced over the next 12 years. 
In addition to oil and natural gas prices, significant technical and commercial assessments are required to determine the Company’s estimated oil and 
natural gas reserves. Reserves estimates are regularly reviewed and updated. Factors such as the availability of geological and engineering data, 
reservoir performance data, acquisition and divestment activity and drilling of new wells all impact on the determination of the Company’s estimates of 
its oil and natural gas reserves. bp bases its reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and commercial 
assessments based on conventional industry practice and regulatory requirements. 
Reserves assumptions for value-in-use tests reflect the reserves and resources that management currently intend to develop. The recoverable amount of 
oil and gas properties is determined using a combination of inputs including reserves, resources and production volumes. Risk factors may be applied to 
reserves and resources which do not meet the criteria to be treated as proved or probable.
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
280 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentation currency of the financial statements is US dollars. Transactions  in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional 
currency of those entities at the spot exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated into the functional currency at the spot exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange differences are included in the 
income statement . Non-monetary items, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated subsequent to initial recognition.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by a non-US dollar functional currency branch are 
translated into US dollars and are recognized in a separate component of equity and reported in other comprehensive income. Income statement 
transactions are translated into US dollars using the average exchange rate for the reporting period. 
Financial guarantees
The company enters into financial guarantee contracts with its subsidiaries. The liability for a financial guarantee contract is initially measured at fair value 
and subsequently measured at the higher of the contract’s estimated expected credit loss and the amount initially recognized less, where appropriate, 
cumulative amortization.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  
The defined benefit pension plans are plans that share risks between entities under common control. In each instance BP p.l.c. is the principal employer 
and carries the whole plan surplus or deficit on its balance sheet. The cost of providing benefits under the company’s defined benefit plans is determined 
separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service 
cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation. Past service costs, resulting from either a plan 
amendment or a curtailment (a reduction in future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership), are recognized immediately 
when the company becomes committed to a change.
Net interest expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits, which is recognized in the income statement, represents the net change in 
present value of plan obligations and the value of plan assets resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the 
present value of the benefit obligation at the start of the year, and to the fair value of plan assets at the start of the year, taking into account expected 
changes in the obligation or plan assets during the year. 
Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability and asset, comprising actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts 
included in net interest described above) are recognized within other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently 
reclassified to profit and loss.
The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit recognized on the balance sheet for each plan comprises the difference between the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds) and the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations 
are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price. Defined benefit 
pension plan surpluses are only recognized to the extent they are recoverable, either by way of a refund from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Significant estimate: pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Accounting for defined benefit pensions involves making significant estimates when measuring the company's pension plan surpluses and deficits. 
These estimates require assumptions to be made about many uncertainties.
Pension assumptions are reviewed by management at the end of each year. These assumptions are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at 
the year end and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the company’s balance sheet, and pension expense for the following year. The 
assumptions used are provided in Note 4.
The assumptions that are the most significant to the amounts reported are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality levels. Assumptions about these 
variables are based on the environment in each country. The assumptions used vary from year to year, with resultant effects on future net income and 
net assets. Changes to some of these assumptions, in particular the discount rate and inflation rate, could result in material changes to the carrying 
amounts of the company’s pension obligations within the next financial year for the UK plan. Any differences between these assumptions and the actual 
outcome will also affect future net income and net assets. 
The values ascribed to these assumptions and a sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in the assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation 
used are provided in Note 4.
Income taxes
Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
Income tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity, in which case the related tax is recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it is determined 
in accordance with the rules established by the applicable taxation authorities. It therefore excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other periods as well as items that are never taxable or deductible. The  company's liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. 
Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that they will be realized in the future. Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 281

1. Material accounting policy information, significant judgements, estimates and assumptions  – continued
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
discounted.  See Note 6 for further details.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price. In the case of financial assets not measured at fair value through 
profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs are also included. The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as 
set out below.  The company derecognizes financial assets when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the rights to receive cash flows have 
been transferred to a third party and either substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset have been transferred, or substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset have neither been retained nor transferred but control of the asset has been transferred. This includes the derecognition of 
receivables for which discounting arrangements are entered into.
Financial assets measured at amortized cost
Financial assets are classified as measured at amortized cost when they are held in a business model the objective of which is to collect contractual cash 
flows and the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective 
interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the assets are derecognized or impaired 
and when interest income is recognized using the effective interest method. This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Cash equivalents
Cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and are short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash, are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and generally have a maturity of three months or less from the 
date of acquisition. Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost or, in the case of certain money market funds, fair value 
through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities  
All financial liabilities held by the company are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Financial liabilities include other payables, 
accruals, and amounts payable to subsidiaries.  The company determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. 
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is 
typically equivalent to the fair value of the proceeds received, net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. 
After initial recognition, financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortized cost is calculated 
by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation 
of liabilities are recognized in interest and other income and finance costs respectively.
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
282 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

2. Investments  
$ million
SubsidiariesaAssociates
Shares Shares Total
Cost
At 1 January 2023  169,148  9  169,157 
Additions  12,266  —  12,266 
Disposals  (8)  —  (8) 
At 31 December 2023  181,406  9  181,415 
Amounts provided
At 1 January 2023  3,674  —  3,674 
At 31 December 2023  3,674  —  3,674 
Cost
At 1 January 2022  166,760  9  166,769 
Additions  2,388  —  2,388 
At 31 December 2022  169,148  9  169,157 
Amounts provided
At 1 January 2022  7,107  —  7,107 
Additions  —  —  — 
Reversals  (3,433)  —  (3,433) 
At 31 December 2022  3,674  —  3,674 
At 31 December 2023  177,732  9  177,741 
At 31 December 2022  165,474  9  165,483 
At 31 December 2023, the carrying amount of the company’s net assets of $123.6 billion  (2022 $122.5 billion ) exceeded the group’s market capitalisation 
of $102.2 billion (2022 $105.8 billion). As a result, management performed an impairment test of t he company's major investments in line with the 
requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. Management considered the performance of investments and impairment tests performed by the 
company’s subsidiaries. Whilst the headroom determined by these tests has reduced, which is largely related to impacts of updates to price assumptions 
and discount rate assumptions , no impairment was determined to be required in respect of the company’s investments in subsidiaries.
The more important subsidiaries of the company at 31 December 2023  and the percentage holding of ordinary share capital (to the nearest whole number) 
are set out below. For a full list of related undertakings see Note 14 . 
Subsidiaries %Country of incorporation Principal activities
International
BP Global Investments Limited 100 England & Wales Investment holding
BP International Limited 100 England & Wales Integrated oil operations
Burmah Castrol PLC 100 Scotland Investment holding
BP Gamma Holdings Limited 100 England & Wales Investment holding
Canada
BP Holdings Canada Limited 100 England & Wales Investment holding
US
BP Holdings North America Limited 100 England & Wales Investment holding
The carrying value of the investment in BP International Limited at 31 December 2023  was $76,244 million  (2022  $76,281 million ). 
The carrying value of the investment in BP Gamma Holdings Limited at 31 December 2023  was $10,000 million (2022 Nil).
3. Receivables  
  $ million
  2023 2022
  Current Non-current Current Non-current
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries   5,862  853  10,641  772 
Amounts receivable from associates   2  —  3  — 
Other receivables  —  —  2  — 
  5,864  853  10,646  772 
The company has current receivables of $4,161 million on Internal Funding Accounts (IFAs) receivable from BP International Limited (2022 $10,218 
million). These balances form a key part of the bp group’s liquidity and funding arrangements under its centralised treasury funding model. Whilst IFA 
credit balances are legally repayable on demand, in practice they have no termination date. IFA debit balances can also be accessed by BP International 
Limited at short notice.Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 283

4. Pensions
The pension obligation consists primarily of a funded final salary pension plan in the UK under which retired employees draw the majority of their benefit 
as an annuity. This pension plan is governed by a corporate trustee whose board is composed of four member-nominated directors, four company-
nominated directors, an independent director, and an independent chair nominated by the company. The trustee board is required by law to act in the best 
interests of the plan participants and is responsible for setting certain policies, such as investment policies of the plan. The plan was closed to new joiners 
in 2010 and was closed to future accrual on 30 June 2021. Employees in the UK are eligible for membership of a defined contribution plan. 
The level of contributions to funded defined benefit plans is the amount needed to provide adequate funds to meet pension obligations as they fall due. 
For the primary UK plan there is a funding agreement between the company and the trustee. On a three year cycle a schedule of contributions is agreed 
covering the next five years. The schedule of contributions is next scheduled to be updated after the 31 December 2023 formal actuarial valuation. No 
contractually committed funding was due at 31 December 2023 . The closure of the defined benefit plan to future accrual reduces the need for funding and 
the plan's expected future funding volatility.
The surplus relating to the primary UK pension plan is recognized on the balance sheet on the basis that the company is entitled to a refund of any 
remaining assets once all members have left the plan.
The obligation and cost of providing the pension benefits is assessed annually using the projected unit credit method. The date of the most recent 
actuarial review was 31 December 2023. The UK plans are subject to a formal actuarial valuation every 3 years. The most recent formal actuarial valuation 
of the main pension plan was as at 31 December 2020; the 31 December 2023 valuation is currently underway.
The material financial assumptions used for estimating the benefit obligations of the plans are set out below. The assumptions are reviewed by 
management at the end of each year and are used to evaluate the accrued benefit obligation at 31 December and pension expense for the following year.
Financial assumptions used to determine benefit obligation   %
  2023 2022
Discount rate for plan liabilities   4.8  5.0 
Rate of increase for pensions in payment   2.8  2.9 
Rate of increase in deferred pensions   2.8  2.9 
Inflation for plan liabilities   3.0  3.1 
Financial assumptions used to determine benefit expense   %
  2023 2022
Discount rate for plan other finance expense   5.0  1.8 
The discount rate assumption is based on third-party AA corporate bond indices and we use yields that reflect the maturity profile of the expected benefit 
payments. The inflation rate assumption is based on the difference between the yields on index-linked and fixed-interest long-term government bonds. The 
inflation assumption is used to determine the rate of increase for pensions in payment and the rate of increase in deferred pensions where there is such an 
increase.
In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the demographic and mortality assumptions. The mortality assumptions reflect best practice 
in the UK and have been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted to reflect the experience of the plans and an extrapolation of 
past longevity improvements into the future. For the main pension plan the mortality assumptions are as follows:
Mortality assumptions   Years
  2023 2022
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 60   27.4  26.9 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 40   29.2  28.5 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 60   29.2  28.8 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 40   30.6  30.6 
The assets of the primary plan are held in a trust, the primary objective of which is to accumulate assets sufficient to meet the obligations of the plan. The 
assets of the trusts are invested in a manner consistent with fiduciary obligations and principles that reflect current practices in portfolio management.
A proportion of the assets are held in equities, which are expected to generate a higher level of return over the long term, with an acceptable level of risk. In 
order to provide reasonable assurance that no single security or type of security has an unwarranted impact on the total portfolio, the investment portfolios 
are highly diversified.
The trustee’s long-term investment objective for the primary UK plan as it matures is to invest in assets whose value changes in the same way as the plan 
liabilities, in order to reduce the level of funding risk. To move towards this objective, the UK plan uses a liability driven investment (LDI) approach for part 
of the portfolio, investing primarily in government bonds to achieve this matching effect for the most significant plan liability assumptions of interest rate 
and inflation rate. This is partly funded by short-term sale and repurchase agreements, whereby the plan borrows money using existing bonds as security 
and which will be bought back at a specified price at an agreed future date. The funds raised are used to invest in further bonds to increase the proportion 
of assets which match the plan liabilities. The borrowings are shown separately in the analysis of pension plan assets in the table below.
For the primary UK pension plan there is an agreement with the trustee to increase the proportion of assets with liability matching characteristics over time 
primarily by reducing the proportion of plan assets held as equities and increasing the proportion held as bonds. During 2023 , the asset allocation policy 
switched 2% of plan assets from equities to bonds ( 2022  2%).
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
284 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

4. Pensions  – continued
The company’s asset allocation policy for the primary plan is as follows:
Asset category   %
Total equity (including private equity)   8 
Bonds/cash (including LDI)   85 
Property/real estate   7 
The amounts invested under the LDI programme by the primary UK pension plan as at 31 December 2023  were $6,215 million ( 2022  $3,981 million ) of 
government-issued nominal bonds and $13,177 million  (2022  $11,945 million ) of index-linked bonds.
The primary plan does not invest directly in either securities or property/real estate of the company or of any subsidiary. 
The fair values of the various categories of assets held by the defined benefit plans at 31 December are presented in the table below, including the effects 
of derivative financial instruments. Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year are shown in detail in the table on page 286 . 
  $ million
  2023 2022
Fair value of pension plan assets  
Listed equities – developed markets  862  1,252 
– emerging markets  28 117 
Private equitya 2,022  2,715 
Government issued nominal bondsb 6,285  4,039 
Government issued index-linked bondsb 13,177  11,945 
Corporate bondsb 6,144  6,317 
Propertyc 2,437  2,297 
Cash  453  567 
Other  1,123  1,088 
Debt (repurchase agreements) used to fund liability driven investments   (6,485)  (5,290) 
 26,046  25,047 
aPrivate equity is valued at fair value based on the most recent third-party net asset, revenue or earnings based valuations that generally result in the use of significant unobservable inputs.
bBonds held are denominated in sterling or hedged back to sterling to minimize foreign currency exposure, and are predominantly valued using observable market data based inputs other than quoted 
market prices in active markets.
cProperty held is all located in the United Kingdom and is valued based on an analysis of recent market transactions supported by market knowledge derived from third-party professional valuers that 
generally result in the use of significant unobservable inputs.
  $ million
  2023 2022
Analysis of the amount charged to profit or loss  
Current service costa  44  41 
Past service costb  4  23 
Settlement  —  (8) 
Operating charge / (credit) relating to defined benefit plans   48  56 
Payments to defined contribution plan   132  110 
Total operating charge / (credit)   180  166 
Interest income on plan assetsc  (1,259)  (694) 
Interest on plan liabilities   868  529 
Other finance (income)   (391)  (165) 
Analysis of the amount recognized in other comprehensive income  
Actual asset return less interest income on pension plan assets   (677)  (12,955) 
Change in financial assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities   (650)  11,528 
Change in demographic assumptions underlying the present value of plan liabilities   (229)  46 
Experience gains and losses arising on the plan liabilities   (321)  (149) 
Remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income   (1,877)  (1,530) 
aThe costs of managing plan investments are offset against the investment return. Following the closure of the main UK pension plan to future accrual, current service cost consists of $34 million of the 
costs of administering the pension plan and $10 million of current service cost from the remaining small worldwide schemes administered and reported through the UK.
bPast service costs predominantly represent costs associated with the removal of some member benefits in non bp p.l.c pension plans being replaced with new arrangements and reported through bp p.l.c.
cThe actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the interest income on plan assets and the remeasurement of plan assets as disclosed above.Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 285

4. Pensions  – continued
  $ million
  2023 2022
Movements in benefit obligation during the year  
Benefit obligation at 1 January   17,459  32,800 
Exchange adjustments   1,055  (3,220) 
Operating charge relating to defined benefit plans   48  56 
Interest cost   868  529 
Contributions by plan participants   6  9 
Benefit payments (funded plans)a  (1,071)  (1,211) 
Benefit payments (unfunded plans)a  (7)  (5) 
Disposals  —  (74) 
Remeasurements   1,200  (11,425) 
Benefit obligation at 31 December   19,558  17,459 
Movements in fair value of plan assets during the year  
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January   25,047  42,844 
Exchange adjustments   1,462  (4,258) 
Interest income on plan assetsb  1,259  694 
Contributions by plan participants   6  9 
Contributions by employers (funded plans)   20  10 
Benefit payments (funded plans)a  (1,071)  (1,211) 
Disposals  —  (86) 
Remeasurementsb  (677)  (12,955) 
Fair value of plan assets at 31 Decemberc d  26,046  25,047 
Surplus at 31 December   6,488  7,588 
Represented by  
Asset recognized   6,631  7,716 
Liability recognized   (143)  (128) 
  6,488  7,588 
The surplus may be analysed between funded and unfunded plans as follows  
Funded   6,631  7,716 
Unfunded   (143)  (128) 
  6,488  7,588 
The defined benefit obligation may be analysed between funded and unfunded plans as follows  
Funded   (19,415)  (17,331) 
Unfunded   (143)  (128) 
  (19,558)  (17,459) 
aThe benefit payments amount shown above comprises $1,044 million  benefits ( 2022  $1,185 million ) plus $34 million  (2022  $31 million ) of plan expenses incurred in the administration of the benefit. 
bThe actual return on plan assets is made up of the sum of the interest income on plan assets and the remeasurement of plan assets as disclosed above. 
cReflects $25,760 million  of assets held in the BP Pension Fund ( 2022  $24,788 million ) and $241 million  held in the BP Global Pension Trust ( 2022  $202 million ), as well as $35 million  representing the 
company’s share of Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund ( 2022  $44 million ) and $10 million  of Merchant Navy Ratings Pension Fund ( 2022  $13 million ). 
dThe fair value of plan assets includes borrowings related to the LDI programme as described on page 285 . 
Sensitivity analysis 
The discount rate, inflation and the mortality assumptions all have a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage point change, in 
isolation, in certain assumptions as at 31 December 2023  for the company’s plans would have had the effects shown in the table below. The effects 
shown for the expense in 2024  comprise the total of current service cost and net finance income or expense.
  $ million
    One percentage point
  Increase Decrease
Discount ratea    
Effect on pension expense in 2024   (197)  173 
Effect on pension obligation at 31 December 2023   (2,258)  2,809 
Inflation rateb 
Effect on pension expense in 2024   89  (83) 
Effect on pension obligation at 31 December 2023   1,872  (1,738) 
aThe amounts presented reflect that the discount rate is used to determine the asset interest income as well as the interest cost on the obligation. 
bThe amounts presented reflect the total impact of an inflation rate change on the assumptions for rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions. 
One additional year of longevity in the mortality assumptions would increase the 2024  pension expense by $27 million  and the pension obligation at 
31 December 2023  by $575 million . 
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
286 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

4. Pensions  – continued
Estimated future benefit payments and the weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations 
The expected benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, but exclude plan expenses, and the weighted average duration of the 
defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2023  are as follows: 
  $ million
Estimated future benefit payments  
2024   1,168 
2025   1,111 
2026   1,124 
2027   1,144 
2028   1,157 
2029-2033   5,950 
  Years
Weighted average duration  12.9
5. Payables
$ million
2023 2022
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Amounts payable to subsidiaries  10,750  53,439  5,230  53,358 
Accruals  747  11  498  8 
Other payables  210  133  136  123 
 11,707  53,583  5,864  53,489 
Included in current amounts payable to subsidiaries are interest-bearing payables with BP Finance p.l.c. and BP Gamma Holdings Limited. Prior to 2023, 
the company's interest bearing payables with BP Finance p.l.c. and BP International Limited  were  exposed to 3 month USD LIBOR. Publication of 3 month 
USD LIBOR ceased from 30 June 2023 however a synthetic LIBOR continues to be published. The interest-bearing payable of $5,079 million (2022 $5,069 
million) with BP Finance p.l.c. has interest charged based on a 3-month USD synthetic LIBOR rate minus 0.14%  with a maturity date of April 2030. Though 
the loan with BP Finance p.l.c. is due in 2030, the loan is repayable at one business day's notice. It is disclosed as a non-current receivable in the financial 
statements of BP Finance p.l.c., given the counterparty has no intent to call the loan at short notice. The interest-bearing payable of $5,500 million (2022 
Nil) with BP Gamma Holdings Limited has interest charged based on a SOFR plus 23 basis points with a maturity date of December 2024 and repayable at 
two business day's notice. Though the loan with BP Gamma Holdings Limited is due in 2024, the loan is auto-renewal. It is disclosed as a non-current 
receivable in the financial statements of BP Gamma Holdings Limited, given the counterparty has no intent to withdraw the loan within the next year.
Non-current amounts payable to subsidiaries includes an interest-bearing payable of $52,585 million with BP International Limited issued in December 
2021 (2022 $52,585 million), with interest being charged based on a 3-month USD synthetic LIBOR rate plus 75 basis points and a maturity date of 
December 2028. The loan includes a prepayment clause for BP p.l.c. to repay part or all of the loan before maturity whilst the lender has no right to call the 
loan other than in the event of the company being in default. As such it is disclosed as non-current in both the company and BP International Limited's 
financial statements.
The maturity profile of the non-current financial liabilities included in the balance sheet at 31 December is shown in the table below. These amounts are 
included within payables. 
$ million
2023 2022
Due within
1 to 2 years  129  60 
2 to 5 years  52,747  224 
More than 5 years  707  53,205 
 53,583  53,489 Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 287

6. Taxation
$ million
Tax charge included in total comprehensive income 2023 2022
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current year  (387)  (883) 
This comprises:
Taxable temporary differences relating to pensions  (387)  (883) 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax liability
Pensionsa 2,305  2,692 
Net deferred tax liability  2,305  2,692 
Analysis of movements during the year
At 1 January  2,692  3,575 
Charge (credit) for the year in the income statement  126  48 
Charge (credit) for the year in other comprehensive income  (513)  (931) 
At 31 December  2,305  2,692 
aIn November 2023 the UK Government announced a reduction in the authorised surplus payments charge applicable to defined benefit pension schemes from 35% to 25%. The legislation has not yet been 
enacted or substantively enacted, but is expected to be effective from 6 April 2024. The change is expected to reduce the deferred tax liability on pension plan surpluses by around $0.7 billion  with the 
related gain recognised in other comprehensive income when the legislation is substantively enacted.
At 31 December 2023 , deferred tax assets of $817 million on other temporary differences; $32 million relating to pensions, $159 million relating to income 
losses and $626 million relating to other deductible temporary differences (2022 $909 million on other temporary differences, comprising $8 million 
relating to pensions; $119 million relating to income losses and $782 million relating to other deductible temporary differences) were not recognised as it is 
not considered probable that suitable taxable profits will be available in the company from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary 
differences can be deducted. There is no fixed expiry date for the unrecognised temporary differences.
7. Called-up share capital  
The allotted, called-up and fully paid share capital at 31 December was as follows:
2023 2022
IssuedShares
thousand $ millionShares
thousand $ million
8% cumulative first preference shares of £1 eacha 7,233  12  7,233  12 
9% cumulative second preference shares of £1 eacha 5,473  9  5,473  9 
 21 21
Ordinary shares of 25 cents each
At 1 January  19,097,783  4,774  20,778,082  5,194 
Issue of new shares for employee share-based payment plans  66,000  17  55,000  14 
Issue of new shares - otherb —  —  165,105  41 
Repurchase of ordinary share capital  (1,262,983)  (316)  (1,900,404)  (475) 
At 31 December  17,900,800  4,475  19,097,783  4,774 
 4,496  4,795 
aThe nominal amount of 8% cumulative first preference shares and 9% cumulative second preference shares that can be in issue at any time shall not exceed £10,000,000  for each class of preference 
shares.
b165 million  new ordinary shares were issued in April 2022 as non-cash consideration for the acquisition of the public units of BP Midstream Partners LP.
Voting on substantive resolutions tabled at a general meeting is on a poll. On a poll, shareholders present in person or by proxy have two votes for every £5 
in nominal amount of the first and second preference shares held and one vote for every ordinary share held. On a show-of-hands vote on other resolutions 
(procedural matters) at a general meeting, shareholders present in person or by proxy have one vote each.
In the event of the winding up of the company, preference shareholders would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on the preference shares, 
plus an amount in respect of accrued and unpaid dividends and a premium equal to the higher of (i)  10%  of the capital paid up on the preference shares 
and (ii) the excess of the average market price of such shares on the London Stock Exchange during the previous six months over par value.
During 2023  the company repurchased 1,263 million  ordinary shares for a total consideration of $7,918 million , including transaction costs of $43 million . 
All shares purchased were for cancellation. The repurchased shares represented 7.1%  of ordinary share capital. A further 156 million  ordinary shares were 
repurchased between the end of the reporting period and 16 February 2024, the latest practicable date before the completion of these financial 
statements, for a total cost of $922 million  of which $746 million  has been accrued at 31 December 2023. The number of shares in issue is reduced when 
shares are repurchased.
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
288 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

7. Called-up share capital  – continued  
Treasury sharesa 
2023 2022
Shares
thousandNominal value
$ millionShares
thousandNominal value
$ million
At 1 January  1,124,927  281  1,137,457  283 
Purchases for settlement of employee share plans  24,688  6  14,150  4 
Issue of new shares for employee share-based payment plans  71,039  19  55,000  14 
Shares re-issued for employee share-based payment plans  (143,575)  (35)  (81,680)  (20) 
At 31 December  1,077,079  271  1,124,927  281 
Of which    - shares held in treasury by bp  726,339  183  940,571  235 
 - shares held in ESOP trusts  350,704  88  184,356  46 
 - shares held by bp’s US plan administratorb 36  —  —  — 
aSee Note 8  for definition of treasury shares. 
bHeld by the company in the form of ADSs to meet the requirements of employee share-based payment plans in the US. 
For each year presented, the balance of shares held in treasury by bp at 1 January represents 4.9%  (2022  5.0% ) of the called-up ordinary share capital of 
the company. 
During 2023 , the movement in shares held in treasury by bp represented less than  1.1%  (2022  less than 0.5% ) of the ordinary share capital of the company. 
8. Capital and reserves  
See statement of changes in equity for details of all reserves balances. 
Share capital 
The balance on the share capital account represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary and preference shares in issue, including treasury shares. 
Share premium account 
The balance on the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary and preference shares. 
Capital redemption reserve 
The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregate nominal value of all the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled. 
Merger reserve 
The balance on the merger reserve represents the fair value of the consideration given in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued in an 
acquisition made by the issue of shares. 
Treasury shares 
Treasury shares represent bp shares repurchased and available for specific and limited purposes. For accounting purposes, shares held in Employee Share 
Ownership Plans (ESOPs) and by bp’s US share plan administrator to meet the future requirements of the employee share-based payment plans are 
treated in the same manner as treasury shares and are, therefore, included in the financial statements as treasury shares. The ESOPs are funded by the 
company and have waived their rights to dividends in respect of such shares held for future awards. Until such time as the shares held by the ESOPs vest 
unconditionally to employees, the amount paid for those shares is shown as a reduction in shareholders’ equity. Assets and liabilities of the ESOPs are 
recognized as assets and liabilities of the company. 
Foreign currency translation reserve 
The foreign currency translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of the foreign currency 
branch. Upon disposal of foreign operations, the related accumulated exchange differences are recycled to the income statement. 
Profit and loss account 
The balance held on this reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the company. 
The profit and loss account reserve includes  $23,858 million  (2022  $23,610 million ), the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions. 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023  do not reflect the dividend announced on 6 February 2024 and which is expected to be 
paid on 28 March 2024; this will be treated as an appropriation of profit in the year ended 31 December 2024 . 
9. Financial guarantees and other contingencies  
The company has issued guarantees to third parties and other bp subsidiaries in case of the failure, on the part of certain bp subsidiaries, to pay current 
liabilities and obligations pertaining to business operations. The amounts guaranteed by the company, at 31 December 2023 , for these arrangements is 
$649 million (2022a $595 million). The company guarantees finance debt and lease obligations of certain bp group subsidiaries. Maturity dates vary and 
guarantees will terminate on full payment and/or cancellation of the obligation. As of 31 December 2023 , maximum guaranteed amounts pertaining to 
debt and lease arrangements were $61,900 million (2022 $57,265 million). These maximum amounts are more than the actual guaranteed exposure due 
at the balance sheet date as well as more than remaining obligations under the guaranteed contracts.
Performance under all the above guarantees would be triggered by a financial default of the guaranteed entity and, as such, are currently not expected to 
have any material effect.Financial statements
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 289

9. Financial guarantees and other contingencies  – continued
As part of normal ongoing business operations and consistent with generally accepted industry practices, the company also executes contracts involving 
standard indemnities and guarantees for the respective businesses in which bp operates as well as indemnities specific to transactions, including the sale 
of businesses. This includes a guarantee of subsidiaries' liabilities under the Consent Decree between the United States, the Gulf states and bp and under 
the settlement agreement with the Gulf states in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The company has also issued uncapped guarantees for certain 
subsidiaries’ liabilities under the Plaintiffs' Steering Committee agreement relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. See Note 33  in the consolidated group 
financial statements of BP p.l.c. for further information. The company regularly evaluates the probability of having to incur costs associated with these 
indemnities and does not believe such matters will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and cash flow.
The company believes that guarantees and other off-balance sheet commitments do not currently, nor could reasonably have in the future, a material 
effect on its financial position, income and expenses, liquidity, investments or financial resources.
aAn amendment has been made to prior year comparatives for the financial guarantee maximum exposure (previously reported as $107 million).
10. Auditor’s remuneration  
Note 36  to the consolidated financial statements provides details of the remuneration of the company’s auditor on a group basis. 
11. Directors’ remuneration
$ million
Remuneration of directors 2023 2022
Total for all directors
Emoluments  8  8 
Amounts awarded under incentive schemesa 6  13 
Total  14  21 
aExcludes amounts relating to past directors. 
Emoluments 
These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chair and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned 
during the relevant financial year, plus cash bonuses awarded for the year. Further information is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 
105. 
Directors' remuneration costs are borne by other undertakings within the group.
12. Employee costs and numbers  
$ million
Employee costs 2023 2022
Wages and salaries  1,211  924 
Social security costs  192  131 
1,403 1,055
Average number of employees 2023 2022
gas & low carbon energy  430  329 
oil production & operations  168  187 
customers & products  1,571  1,182 
other businesses and corporate  2,076  1,893 
4,245 3,591
The employee costs noted above relate to those employees with contracts of employment in the name of BP p.l.c.. These costs are borne by other 
undertakings within the group.
13. Events after the reporting period
On 14 February 2024 bp announced that it had agreed to form a new joint venture in Egypt with ADNOC (bp 51% , ADNOC 49%). As part of the agreement 
bp will contribute its interests in three non-operated development concessions as well as exploration agreements in Egypt, and ADNOC will make a 
proportionate cash contribution. Formation of the joint venture and completion of these transactions is subject to regulatory approval. From 14 February 
2024 the associated carrying values of these interests have been determined to meet the criteria to be classified as assets held for sale under IFRS 5 Non-
current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. The carrying value of fixed assets associated with these interests at 31 December 2023 was 
$1.4 billion . The impacts are expected to be reflected in the group’s first quarter 2024 interim financial statements .
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
290 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings, showing the registered office address and the effective 
equity owned by the bp group as at 31 December 2023  is disclosed below. 
Unless otherwise stated, all interests are indirectly held by BP p.l.c.
All subsidiary undertakings are controlled by the group and their results are fully consolidated in the group’s financial statements. 
Subsidiaries
Company by country of incorporation and registered office address Ownership interest %
Albania
Rruga Ibrahim Rugova, Sky Tower, Tirana, Kati 9/1, Albania
BP Albania SHPK Ordinary 100.00
Argentina
Av. Cordoba 315 Piso 8, Buenos Aires, 1054, Argentina
Latin Energy Argentina S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Australia
Level 11, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD, 4000, Australia
Onyx Insight Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Level 15, 240 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia
BP Developments Australia Pty. Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
BP Developments Holdings Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Level 17, 717 Bourke Street, Docklands VIC 3008, Australia
Advance Petroleum Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Advance Petroleum Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Air Refuel Pty Ltd Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
Allgreen Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BASS Holdings Trust Membership Interest 51.00
BASS Management Pty Ltd Ordinary 51.00
BASS NZ Head Trust Membership Interest 51.00
BASS NZ Management Pty Ltd Ordinary 51.00
BASS NZ Sub Management Pty Ltd Ordinary 51.00
BASS NZ Sub Trust Membership Interest 51.00
BP Alternative Energy Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Australia Employee Share Plan Proprietary Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Australia Group Pty Ltd Ordinary; Preference 100.00
BP Australia Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Australia Shipping Pty LtdaOrdinary 100.00
BP Australia Supply Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Bulwer Island Pty Ltd Ordinary; Ordinary A; 
Ordinary B100.00
BP Energy Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Finance Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Low Carbon Australia (CCS) Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Low Carbon Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Refinery (Kwinana) Proprietary Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Regional Australasia Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Solar Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Brian Jasper Nominees Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Burmah Castrol Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary; Redeemable 
preference100.00
Castrol Australia Pty. Limited Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Holdings Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Centrel Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Clarisse Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Dermody Petroleum Pty. Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
Elite Customer Solutions Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
International Bunker Supplies Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
No. 1 Riverside Quay Proprietary Limited Ordinary 100.00
Open Energi Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary; Ordinary A 100.00
Taradadis Pty. Ltd. Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 291

West Kimberley Fuels Pty Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Austria
Am Belvedere 10, 1100 Wien, Austria
CASTROL Austria GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Österreich Lubricants GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Azerbaijan
153 Neftchilar Avenue, Baku, AZ1010, Azerbaijan
BP-AIOC Exploration (TISA) LLC Membership Interest 65.88
TISA Education Complex LLC Membership Interest 65.88
Bahamas
2 Bayside Executive Park, West Bay, Nassau, Bahamas
ARCO Trinidad Exploration and Production Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
Barbados
The Financial Services Centre, Bishop's Court Hill, St. Michael, Barbados
BP (Barbados) Holding SRL Ordinary 100.00
BP Train 2/3 Holding SRL Ordinary 100.00
Belgium
Langerbruggekaai 18, Gent, 9000, Belgium
BP Iraq N.V. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Belgium B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Brazil
Avenida das Américas 3434, Bloco 7, Sala 301 a 308 (parte), Barra da Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, 22640-102, Brazil
BP Brasil Ltda. Membership Interest 100.00
BP Energy do Brasil Ltda. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Brasil Ltda. Ordinary 100.00
Avenida das Nações Unidas, nº 12.399, 4º andar, salas 43A e 44A , Torre C, Edifício Landmark, Brooklin Paulista, São Paulo/
SP, CEP 04578-000, Brazil
Air BP Brasil Ltda. Ordinary 100.00
BP Biocombustíveis S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Avenida das Nações Unidas, nº 12.399, salas 62,63 e 64, lado B, 6º andar, Edifício Landmark, São Paulo/SP, CEP 04578-000, 
Brazil
BP Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. Ordinary 100.00
British Virgin Islands
Craigmuir Chambers, P.O. Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands
BP Egypt East Delta Marine Corporation Ordinary; Preference 100.00
BP Middle East Enterprises Corporation Ordinary 100.00
Ocorian Corporate Services (BVI) Limited, Jayla Place, Wickhams Cay 1, PO Box 3190,Tortola, Road Town, VG1110, British 
Virgin Islands
Wiriagar Overseas Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Canada
1100, 635 - 8th Avenue SW, Calgary AB T2P 3M3, Canada
Terre de Grace Partnership Partnership interest 75.00
1700, 421 – 7th Avenue SW Calgary, AB T2P 4K9, Canada
Finite Carbon Canada LTD Ordinary 80.50
240 Fourth Avenue SW, Calgary AB T2P 2H8, Canada
563916 Alberta Ltd. Preference 33.33
Dome Beaufort Petroleum Limited Ordinary 100.00
Dome Wallis (1980) Limited Partnership Partnership interest 92.50
77 King Street West, Suite 400, Toronto, Canada
TravelCentres Canada Corporation Membership Interest 100.00
TravelCentres Canada Inc. Membership Interest 100.00
TravelCentres Canada Limited Partnership Limited Partner 100.00
900, 1959 Upper Water Street, Halifax, NS, B3J 3N2, Canada
BP Canada Energy Development Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Canada Energy Group ULC Ordinary 100.00
Chile
Av. Américo Vespucio Sur No. 100, of. 1101, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile
Burmah Chile SpA Ordinary 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
292 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

China
#4047, Room 313, Floor 3, Shanshui Tower, No. 3, Guloudong Avenue, Beijing, Miyun District, China
Beijing BP Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.00
1-3 / F, Unit D2,1958 Double Innovation Park, No. 220, Huashan Road, Zhongyuan District, Zhengzhou City, China
Zhenzhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
302,252, Duxin North Road, Fotang Town, Yiwu City, Zhejiang Province, China
Jinhua BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
4-2-506, Rongchuang Rongsheng Plaza, Binhai-Zhongguancun Science and Technology Park, Tianjin Economic and 
Technological Development Zone, Tianjin, China
Tianjin BP Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.00
808-02, Building 2, No.16, Xingao Road, Niutang Town, Wujin District, Changzhou City, Jiangsu Province, China
Changzhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
C2256, Zhongchuang Space,9-14/F, Building A, Baoye Center, No.31 Jianshe 1st Road, Qingshan District, Wuhan City, Hubei 
Province, China
Wuhan BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
D21 Room 306, No.64, Shiji Village Section, Shiji Town, Guangzhou, Panyu District, China
Guangzhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
D69, Floor 3, Block 1, Phase 6,Tianan Nanhai Digital New Town, No.12, Jianping Road, Guicheng Street, Nanhai District, Foshan 
city, China
Foshan BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Fenglin West Road, Dongpu Street,Yuecheng District, Shaoxing City, Zhejiang Province, China
Shaoxing BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Floor 3, Building 5, 255 Guiqiao Road, Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, China
Castrol (Shanghai) Management Co., Ltd Membership Interest 100.00
No 833, South Guang Zhou Avenue, Guangzhou Province, Haizhu District, China
BP Guangdong Limited Membership Interest 90.00
No. 06-03, 5th Floor, Building 1, Modern-International Design Phase 1,Guandong Street, No. 41, Guanggu Avenue, East Lake 
New Technology Development Zone, Wuhan (Wuhan Free Trade Zone), Hubei Province, China
Wuhan BP Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.00
No. 1, Building 29, Tang'an Community, Haihong Street, Taizhou Bay New District, Taizhou City, Zhejiang Province, China
Taizhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
No. 3-6-23, 1st Floor, Building 7, No. 130 Xiazhongdukou, Shapingba Street, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China
Chongqing BP Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.00
No. 399 Dongfeng highway, Dongping Town, Chongming District, (Dongping Economic Development, Shanghai City, China
Shanghai Quanzhi New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
No.0152, Room 16, 17, 18, 7/F, Unit 3, Building 4, Greenland Liansheng International, East of Xingxin North Road and north of 
Yingbin Road, Jinhuayuan Street, Guanshanhu District, Guiyang City, Guizhou Province, China
GuiYang City BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co. Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
No.17-5, Second Floor 04, Sumitomo Homeland, Binhu District, Wuxi City, China
Wuxi BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
No.9 Bin Jiang South Road, Petrochemical Industrial Park, Taicang Gangkou Development Zone, Jiangsu Province, China
BP (China) Industrial Lubricants Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Office 6, Room 708, No. 33 Jinmeng Lane, Xiangzhou District, Zhuhai City, Guangdong Province, China
Zhuhai BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 1001, 10th Floor, Building A2, Xiangjiang Times Business Square, No.179 Xiandao Road, Yuelu District,Hunan, Changsha, 
China
BP (Hunan) Petroleum Company Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Room 1001, 2nd Floor, Building 1,Qinqiao Agricultural Innovation Headquarters Building, Xiash, Shiyang Town, Taishun County, 
Wenzhou City, Zhejiang Province, China
Wenzhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 102, No. 1, Shixin Road, Shiqiao Street, Panyu District, Guangzhou, China
Guangzhou Jintian New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 100.00
Room 1107-2A258, Building 1, Aerospace City Center Square, Shenzhouwu Road, National Civil Aerospace Industry Base, Xi'an 
City, Shaanxi Province, China
BP (Xi'an) Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Room 1-2201, Sijian Meilin Mansion, No. 48-15 Wuyingshan Middle Road, Tianqiao District, Shandong, Ji'nan, China
BP (Shandong) Petroleum Co., Ltd Membership Interest 100.00
Room 1908, YOUYOU International Plaza, Pudong District, Shanghai, China
BP (Shanghai) Technology Company Limited Membership Interest 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 293

Room 201, 2nd floor, Building 3, Industrial Research and Development, Xingong Standard Factory Building, No. 31, Songbai 
Road, Santang Town, Xingning District, Nanning City, Guangxi Province, China
Nanning BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 201, Complex A, Qianwan Road 1, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen City, China
BP Xiaoju New Energy (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 2103, 10 Hua Xia Road, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, PR, China
BP (Guangzhou) Advanced Mobility Limited Ordinary 100.00
Room 215, Building 5, No. 72, Nanxiang 2nd Road, Sciecheng, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China
Guangzhou Jintian Linkage New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 100.00
Room 2-1-7, 1st Floor,Building 7, No.130 Xiazhong Dukou, Shapingba District, Chongqing, China
Chongqing BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 222-1, Building 1, Wanya Famous City, Qiantang New District, Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province, China
Hangzhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 2233, second floor, Aofeng Street Resettlement House #1, No. 50 Aofeng Road, Aofeng Street, Fuzhou City, Taijiang 
District, China
Fujian BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co., Ltd Membership Interest 70.00
Room 2302, Unit 1, Building 20, Shengtang Supreme, Luolong District, Luoyang City, Henan Province, China
Luoyang BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 2305, Floor 20, Building 29,Yard 8, West Cultural Park Road, Beijing Economic and Technological Development Zone, 
Beijing, China
Beijing BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 2-521, Building A,No.6 Huafeng Road, Huaming Hi-tech Industrial Zone, Dongli District, Tianjin city, China
Tianjin BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 302, No.252, Duxin North Road, Fotang Town, Yiwu City, Jinhua City, Zhejiang Province, China
Jinhua BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 309, 3rd Floor, 2nd Floor, Southwest International Business Port, West Square, Taiyuan South Station, Taiyuan City, 
Xiandian District, China
Taiyuan BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 3173, Building 1,No.39 Hongtu Road, Nancheng Street, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province, China
Dongguan BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 3726, Building 3, No. 89 Shuanggao Road, Gaochun Economic Development Zone, Nanjing, Gaochun District, China
Nanjing BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 402, 4F, Block C, Complex Building, No.30 Jiefang Road, Lixia District, Jinan City, Shandong Province, China
Jinan BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 402-12, No.90~96 Science Avenue (even), Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China
Guangzhou Huangpu BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 421, Floor 4,Building 8, No. 388, North Section of Yizhou Avenue, High-tech Zone, Chengdu city, China
Chengdu BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 431, No. 30, East Qilong Road, Guangzhou, China
Guangdong Jintian Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 100.00
Room 505, 5th Floor, Building 6,No. 599, Century City South Road, Chengdu High-tech Zone, China (Sichuan) Pilot Free Trade 
Zone, China
Chengdu BP Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Room 6, Ground floor, Building A, No.2 Taohong West Street, Shima Village, Junhe Street, Baiyun District, Guangzhou, China
Guangdong Jintian New Energy Automobile Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 100.00
Room 603, Floor 6, No. 3 Lane 2889 Jinke Road, (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China
Onyx Insight Analytics Shanghai Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Room 703, Building 32, No.258 Shengpu Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, China
Suzhou BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 708-168, 7th Floor, Building C,Hangchuang Plaza, Shenzhou 4th Road, National Civil Aerospace Industry Base, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi, China
Xi'an BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 7088-594, 7th Floor, 1558 Jiangnan Road, Ningbo High-tech Zone, Zhejiang Province, China
Ningbo BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 716, Block C, Future Science and Technology Plaza, No.136, Xiuzhou Avenue, Xincheng Street, Zhejiang Province, 
Jiaxing City, China
Jiaxing BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Room 820, 8th Floor, Hilton Hotel, Platinum Bay World Trade Center, 1100, Section 3, Xiaoxiang North Road, Hunan Province, 
Changsha City, Yuelu District, China
Changsha BP Advanced Mobility Limited Membership Interest 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
294 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Room -829, 1st Floor, D2 District, Fuxing City, No. 32 Binhai Avenue, Binhai Street, Longhua District, Haikou City, Hainan 
Province, China
Hainan BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd Membership Interest 70.00
Room A018, 10th Floor, Kaifeng Building, No. 188, Fuqiang Street, Yuhua District, Shijiazhuang City, Hebei Province, China
Shijiazhuang City BP Xiaoju New Energy Technology Co. Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
South of NanGang Industrial Area, and East of Hai Gang Road, Tianjin Economic Development Area, Tianjin, China
Castrol (Tianjin) Lubricants Co., Ltd Membership Interest 100.00
Unit 01, 6th Floor (actual 5th), No.90 Qirong Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China
BP (China) Holdings Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Unit 03A, 33rd Floor, T1 Building, IFC, No.188, Jiefang West Road, Dingwangtai Street, Changsha City, Furong District, China
Changsha BP Xiaoju New Energy Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 70.00
Colombia
Calle 80 No.11-42 Oficina 901, Bogota, 110111, Colombia
GOAM 1 C.I S. A .S Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Colombia Ltda. Membership Interest 100.00
Croatia
Savska cesta 32, Zagreb, Croatia
Air BP Croatia d.o.o. Ordinary 100.00
Denmark
c/o Danish Refuelling Services I/S, Hydrantvej 16, 2770 Kastrup, Denmark
BP Aviation A/S Ordinary 100.00
Kampmannsgade 2. 1604 København V, Denmark
Castrol Denmark A/S Ordinary 100.00
Orestads Boulevard 73, Kobenhavn S, 2300, Denmark
BP Danmark A/S Ordinary 100.00
Egypt
Plot No 14d03, The Southern Business district of Cairo, Festival City - New Cairo, Cairo, Egypt
BP Marketing Egypt LLC Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Egypt Lubricants S.A.E. Ordinary 51.00
Castrol Egypt Marketing SSC Ordinary 100.00
Finland
Öljytie 4, 01530 Vantaa, Finland
Air BP Finland Oy Ordinary 100.00
France
Campus Saint Christophe, Bâtiment Galilée 3, 10 Avenue de l'Entreprise, Cergy Cedex, 95863, France
BP France Ordinary 100.00
Castrol France Sas Ordinary 100.00
PRODUITS METALLURGIE DOITTAU Ordinary 100.00
Société de Gestion de Dépots d'Hydrocarbures - GDH Ordinary 100.00
SRHP Ordinary 100.00
Gambia
3 Kairaba Avenue, 3rd Floor Centenary, Kanifing Municipality, Serekunda West, Gambia
BP Exploration (Gambia) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Germany
Alexander-von-Humboldt-Straße 1, Gelsenkirchen, 45896, Germany
Gelsenkirchen Raffinerie Netz GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Ruhr Oel GmbH (ROG) Ordinary 100.00
Raffineriestraße 1, Lingen, 49808, Germany
Lingen Green Hydrogen GmbH & Co. KG Ordinary 100.00
Lingen Green Hydrogen Management GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Sportallee 6, 22335 Hamburg, Germany
TGH Tankdienst-Gesellschaft Hamburg GbR Partnership interest 66.67
Timmerhellstsr. 28, Mülheim/Ruhr, 45478, Germany
DHC Solvent Chemie GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Überseeallee 1, 20457, Hamburg, Germany
BP Europa SEbOrdinary 100.00
BP Lingen Green Hydrogen Verwaltung GmbH Ordinary 100.00
BP Olex Fanal Mineralöl GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Deutschland Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 295

Castrol Germany GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Wittener Straße 45, 44789 Bochum, Germany
Aral Aktiengesellschaft Ordinary 100.00
Aral Pulse GmbH Ordinary 100.00
B2Mobility GmbH Ordinary 100.00
BP Fuels Deutschland GmbH Ordinary 100.00
bp OFW Management 1 GmbH Ordinary 100.00
bp OFW Management 2 GmbH Ordinary 100.00
bp OFW Management 3 GmbH Ordinary 100.00
bp OFW Management 4 GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Trafineo Service GmbH Ordinary 75.00
Wittener Straße 56, Bochum, Germany
TRaBP GbR Partnership interest 75.00
Trafineo GmbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 75.00
Trafineo Verwaltungs-GmbH Ordinary 75.00
Zum Ölhafen 207, 26384 Wilhelmshaven, Germany
Nord-West Oelleitung GmbH Ordinary 59.33
Ghana
Atlantic Tower, 4th Floor, Liberation Road, Airport City, Accra, Ghana
BP Ghana Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Greece
1, Proteos & 51, Anapafseos str, 15235 Vrilissia, Attica, Greece
RAPI SA Ordinary 62.51
26A, Ioannou Apostolopoulou, 15231, Chalandri, Attica, Greece
BP OIL HELLENIC S.M.S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Hellas Single Member Societe Anonyme Ordinary 100.00
Guernsey
Albert House, South Esplanade, St. Peter Port, GY1 1AW, Guernsey
BP Pensions (Overseas) LimitedcMembership Interest 100.00
Jupiter Insurance Limited Ordinary 100.00
Hong Kong
Unit 25-150, 25/F, Two Harbour Square, 180 Wai Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Castrol (China) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Hungary
1133 Budapest, Árbóc utca 1-3, Hungary
BP Business Service Centre KFT Membership Interest 100.00
Iceland
Skogarhlid 12, 105, Reykjavik, Iceland
Air BP Iceland Ordinary 100.00
India
2nd,3rd & 4th Floor, 201,301,401, Bldg. No. 6, R4, KRC Infrastructure & Projects Pvt. Ltd. SEZ, Kharadi, Pune 411014, India
BP Business Solutions India Private Limited Ordinary 100.00
Office No. 306, Regus Business Center , 3rd Floor, Abbusali St, Saligramam, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 600093, India
OnSight Analytics Solutions India Private Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
Technopolis Knowledge Park, Mahakali Caves Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai 400093, India
BP India Private Limited Ordinary 88.51
Castrol India Limited Ordinary 51.00
Indonesia
Arkadia Green Park, Tower G, 2nd Floor, Jl. Letjend TB Simatupang Kav. 88, Jakarta Selatan, Pasar Minggu, 12520, Indonesia
PT Jasatama Petroindo Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
Arkadia Green Park, Tower G, 3rd floor, Jl. Let. Jen. TB Simatupang Kav. 88, Jakarta Selatan, Jakarta 12520, Indonesia
PT Castrol Indonesia Ordinary 68.30
JL. Raya Merak KM 117,DS Gerem, Gerem Grogol, Banten, Cilegon, Indonesia
PT Castrol Manufacturing Indonesia Ordinary 68.30
Iraq
Khur Al-Zubair, pear No 1, Basra, Iraq
Water Way Trading and Petroleum Services LLC Ordinary 100.00
Royal Tulip Al Rasheed Hotel, Baghdad Tower, PO Box 8070, Baghdad, Iraq
Phoenix Petroleum Services, Limited Liability Company Ordinary 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
296 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Ireland
One Spencer Dock, North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, Ireland
Castrol (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Italy
Piazza Borromeo, 12, Milano, 20123, Italy
BP Italia Holdings SpA Ordinary 100.00
Via Gaetano De Castillia, 23, Milan, MI, 20124, Italy
BP Italia SpA Ordinary 100.00
Japan
15th Fl. Roppongi Hills Mori Tower, 10-1 Roppongi 6-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo106-6115, Japan
BP Japan K.K. Ordinary 100.00
TJKK Ordinary 100.00
East Tower 20F, Gate City Ohsaki, 1-11-2 Osaki, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, Japan
BP Castrol KK Ordinary 64.84
BP Lubricants KK Ordinary 64.84
Castrol KK Ordinary 64.84
Korea (the Republic of)
1304(Ocean Hill Officetel), 73 gangnam-haeanro, Dolsan-eup, Yeosu-si, Jeollanam Province, Korea (the Republic of)
West Ocean Wind Co., Ltd. Ordinary 55.00
19th Floor, 302, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of)
BP Korea Limited Ordinary 100.00
3rd Floor, 10, Baumoe-ro 21-gil, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of)
Onyx Insight Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
Level 2 (787-87, Gunnae-ri), 18 Chunghaejinnam-ro, Wando-eup, Wando County, Jeollanam Province, Korea (the Republic of)
Chunghaejin Offshore Wind Power Co., Ltd. Ordinary 55.00
Level 2 (LS Tower), 7 Samyul 6-gil, Hupo-myeon, Uljin County, Gyeongsangbuk Province, Korea (the Republic of)
Ilchool Offshore Wind Power Co., Ltd. Ordinary 55.00
Level 3, 702-ho, 61-18 Odongdo-ro, Yeosu-si, Jeollanam Province, Korea (the Republic of)
YiSunSin Offshore Wind Co., Ltd. Ordinary 55.00
Luxembourg
Bâtiment B, 36 route de Longwy, L-8080 Bertrange, Luxembourg
Aral Luxembourg S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Aral Tankstellen Services Sarl Ordinary 100.00
Malaysia
Level 9, Tower 5, Avenue 7, The Horizon Bangsar South City, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, Kuala Lumpur, 59200, Malaysia
Aspac Lubricants (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Membership Interest 63.03
BP Business Service Centre Asia Sdn Bhd Ordinary 100.00
BP Castrol Lubricants (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 63.03
BP Malaysia Holdings Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 70.00
Mexico
Avenida Santa Fe 505, Col. Cruz Manca Santa Fe, Delegacion Cuajimalpa, Mexico
BP Energía México, S. de R.L. de C.V. Ordinary; Ordinary B 100.00
BP Estaciones y Servicios Energéticos, Sociedad Anónima de Capital Variable Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
BP Exploration Mexico, S.A. De C.V. Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
BP Servicios de Combustibles S.A. de C.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Servicios territoriales, S.A. de C.V. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
Mes Tecnologia En Servicios Y Energia, S.A. De C.V. Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
Mozambique
Torres Rani, Avenida Marginal, Talhão 141, 6º andar, Maputo, Mozambique
BP Mocambique Limitada Ordinary 100.00
Netherlands
Chertsey Road, Sunbury on Thames, Middlesex, TW16 7BP, England, United Kingdom
BP Capital Markets B.V. Ordinary 100.00
d'Arcyweg 76, 3198 NA Europoort Rotterdam, Netherlands
Actomat B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Canada International Holdings B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Chemicals (FSC) B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Exploration Holdings B.V. Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 297

Amoco Trinidad Gas B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Canada International Holdings B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Commodity Supply B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Egypt East Tanka B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Egypt Production B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Egypt Ras El Barr B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Egypt West Mediterranean (Block B) B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Holdings B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Holdings International B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Management International B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Management Netherlands B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Muturi Holdings B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Nederland Holdings B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Netherlands Upstream B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Offshore Renewables Energy B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BP Raffinaderij Rotterdam B.V. Ordinary 100.00
BPNE International B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Holdings Europe B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Nederland B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Foseco Holding International B.V. Ordinary 100.00
FreeBees B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Vaals B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Vaals HoldCo B.V. Ordinary 100.00
Überseeallee 1, 20457, Hamburg, Germany
BP Holdings Central Europe B.V. Ordinary 100.00
New Zealand
Ground Floor, Watercare House, 73 Remuera Road, Remuera, Auckland, 1050, New Zealand
BP New Zealand Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP New Zealand Share Scheme Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil New Zealand Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Pacific Investments Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Castrol New Zealand Limited Ordinary 100.00
Coro Trading NZ Limited Ordinary 100.00
Europa Oil NZ Limited Ordinary 100.00
Nigeria
1, Oyinka Abayomi Drive, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria
BP Exploration (Nigeria) Limited Ordinary 100.00
188, Awolowo Road, S. W. Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria
Amoco Nigeria Exploration Company Limited Ordinary; Preference 100.00
Amoco Nigeria Oil Company Limited Membership Interest 100.00
Amoco Nigeria Petroleum Company Limited Membership Interest 100.00
8/10, Broad Street, Lagos, Nigeria
ARCO Oil Company Nigeria Unlimited Membership Interest 100.00
Heritage Place, 13th Floor, 21 Lugard Avenue,Lagos, Ikoyi, Nigeria
BP Global West Africa Limited Ordinary 100.00
Norway
Tjuvholmen allé 3, 0252 Oslo, Norway
Air BP Norway AS Ordinary 100.00
BP Fuels & Lubricants AS Ordinary 100.00
BP Low Carbon Energy Norway Holding AS Ordinary 100.00
BP Norway Offshore Wind SN2 Holdco AS Ordinary 100.00
Oman
PO Box 2309, Salalah, 211, Oman
BP Global Investments Salalah & Co LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Rock Garden Plaza – Phase 1 Building, PO Box 545, PC 118, Oman
BP Duqm Hydrogen SPC Ordinary 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
298 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Pakistan
D-67/1, Block # 4, Scheme # 5, Clifton, Karachi, Pakistan
Castrol Pakistan (Private) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Peru
Av. Camino Real, 111 Torre B Oficina, 603 San Isidro, Lima, Peru
Castrol Del Peru S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Philippines
37th Floor, LKG Tower 6801, Ayala Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
Castrol Philippines, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Poland
ul. Grzybowska 62, Warszawa, 00-844, Poland
Castrol CEE spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością Ordinary 100.00
ul. Pawia 9, Małopolskie, Kraków, 31-154, Poland
BP Polska Services Sp. z o.o. Membership Interest 100.00
Portugal
Lagoas Park, Edificio 3, Porto Salvo, Oeiras, Portugal
BP Portugal -Comercio de Combustiveis e Lubrificantes SA Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Portugal, S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Fuelplane- Sociedade Abastecedora De Aeronaves, Unipessoal, Lda Ordinary 100.00
Sociedade de Promocao Imobiliaria Quinta do Loureiro, SA Ordinary 100.00
Romania
Bucharest, District 3, Boulevard Comeliu Coposu, no 6-8, Unirii View Building, Office 101, floor 1, Romania
Castrol Lubricants RO S.R.L Ordinary 100.00
Otopeni, 224E Calea Bucurestilor, within International Airport - Băneasa, Aurel Vlaicu - platform 2,Ilfov county, Romania
Air BP Sales Romania S.R.L. Ordinary 100.00
Russian Federation
Berzarina str., 36, building1, Shchukino Municipal District, Moscow, 123060, Russian Federation
Limited liability company Setra Lubricants Membership Interest 100.00
Senegal
Route de Ouakam x Corniche Ouest, Immeuble Alphadio Barry, Dakar, Senegal
BP Oil Senegal S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Singapore
7 Straits View #26-01, Marina One East Tower, 018936, Singapore
BP Asia Pacific Pte LtddOrdinary 100.00
BP Energy Asia Pte. Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Xazar) Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
BP Maritime Services (Singapore) Pte. Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Singapore Pte. Limited Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Singapore PTE. Limited Ordinary 100.00
Slovakia
Karadžičova 2, Bratislava, 815 32, Slovakia
Blueprint Power Slovakia s.r.o. Membership Interest 100.00
South Africa
199 Oxford Road, Oxford Parks, Dunkeld, Johannesburg, GP, 2196, South Africa
BP Southern Africa Proprietary Limited Ordinary 74.97
Burmah Castrol South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary; Ordinary A 100.00
ECM Markets SA (Pty) Ltd Ordinary 74.97
Spain
Atraque Punta Lucero, Explanada Punta Ceballos s/n, Ziérbena (Vizcaya), Spain
Bahia de Bizkaia Electridad, S.L. Ordinary 75.00
Calle Quintanadueñas, 6, (Edificio Arqborea), Madrid, 28050, Spain
BP Energy Solutions Sociedad de Valores, S.A Ordinary 100.00
BP Espana, S.A. Unipersonal Ordinary A; Ordinary B; 
Ordinary C100.00
BP Gas & Power Iberia, S.A Ordinary 100.00
BP Refined Products Trading Iberia, S.L. Ordinary 100.00
BP Solar Espana, S.A. Unipersonal Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
Castrol España, S.L. Sociedad Unipersonal Ordinary 100.00
Markoil, S.A. Unipersonal Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 299

Onyx Insight Spain Sociedad Limitada Ordinary 100.00
Polígono Industrial "El Serrallo", s/n 12100 Grao de Castellón, Castellón de la Plana, Spain
BP Energía España, S.A. Unipersonal Ordinary 100.00
Castellón Green Hydrogen, S.L. Ordinary 100.00
Sweden
Box 8107, Stockholm, 10420, Sweden
Air BP Sweden AB Ordinary 100.00
Hemvärnsgatan, 171 54, Solna, Sweden
Castrol Sweden AB Ordinary 100.00
Switzerland
Baarerschtrasse 139, Zug, 6300, Switzerland
Castrol Switzerland GmbH Ordinary 100.00
Taiwan (Province of China)
57F.-1, No. 7, Sec. 5, Xinyi Rd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City, 11049, Taiwan (Province of China)
BP Taiwan Marketing Limited Ordinary 100.00
Thailand
23rd Fl. Rajanakarn Bldg, 3 South Sathon Road, Yannawa South Sathon, Bangkok 10120, Thailand
BP - Castrol (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 57.59
SOFAST Limited Ordinary (100.00%); 
Preference (58.99%)63.09
39/77-78 Moo 2 Rama II Road, Tambon Bangkrachao, Amphur Muang, Samutsakorn 74000, Thailand
BP Holdings (Thailand) Limited Ordinary (80.10%); 
Preference (99.07%)81.18
BP Oil (Thailand) Limited Ordinary (93.64%); 
Preference (81.18%)90.40
Trinidad and Tobago
5-5A Queen's Park West, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
BP Alternative Energy Trinidad and Tobago Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Trinidad & Tobago LNG Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Trinidad Processing Limited Ordinary 100.00
Mayaro Initiative for Private Enterprise Development Ordinary 70.00
Türkiye
Degirmen yolu cad. No:28, Asia OfisPark K:3 Icerenkoy-Atasehir, Istanbul, 34752, Türkiye
BP Akaryakit Ortakligi Partnership interest 70.00
BP Dogal Gaz Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Ordinary 100.00
BP Petrolleri Anonim Sirketi Ordinary 100.00
Içerenköy Mah, Degirmen Yolu Cad, Mengerler Blok No: 28/1 Iç Kapi No: 12, Atasehir/Istanbul, Türkiye
Castrol Madeni Yağlar Ticaret Anonim Şirketi Ordinary 100.00
United Arab Emirates
2474ResCo-work07 & 2474ResCo-work08, 24, Al Sila Tower, Abu Dhabi Global Market Square, Al Maryah Island, Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates
LYTT ME LIMITED Ordinary 100.00
8th Floor, Standard Chartered Tower, Downtown, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
BP Middle East LLC Ordinary 100.00
Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Stryde Middle East FZE Ordinary 100.00
United Kingdom
1 Wellheads Avenue, Dyce, Aberdeen, AB21 7PB, United Kingdom
BP Energy Europe Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
Britannic Strategies Limited Ordinary 100.00
Britoil Limited Ordinary 100.00
Burmah Castrol PLCdOrdinary 100.00
10 Upper Berkeley Street, London, W1H 7PE, United Kingdom
Horizon 38 Management Company Limited Membership Interest 53.50
11 Black Horse Lane, Ipswich, Suffolk, IP1 2EF, United Kingdom
Manormaker (Nominee No. 1) Limited Ordinary 99.90
Manormaker (Nominee No. 2) Limited Ordinary 99.90
Manormaker GP Limited Membership Interest 99.90
The Manormaker Limited Partnership Membership Interest 99.9014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
300 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

33 Cavendish Square, London, W1G 0PW, United Kingdom
Ropemaker Exempt Unit Trust Membership Interest 100.00
Breckland, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, MK14 6GY, England, United Kingdom
Ashford Truckstop Freehold Limited Ordinary 100.00
Charge Your Car Limited Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100.00
Chargemaster Limited Ordinary 100.00
Elektromotive Limited Ordinary 100.00
C/O Bdo Llp, 2 Atlantic Square, 31 York Street, Glasgow, G2 8NJ, Scotland, United Kingdom
The Burmah Oil Company (Pakistan Trading) Limited Ordinary 100.00
C/O Bdo Llp, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH, United Kingdom
Autino Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP (Indian Agencies) LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Canada) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Greenland) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Madagascar) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Morocco) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Namibia) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Psi) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Peru Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil Venezuela Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Petrochemicals India Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Subsea Well Response (Brazil) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Expandite Contract Services Limited Ordinary 100.00
Exploration (Luderitz Basin) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Chertsey Road, Sunbury on Thames, Middlesex, TW16 7BP, England, United Kingdom
Air BP Limited Ordinary 100.00
Amoco (Fiddich) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Amoco U.K. Petroleum Limited Ordinary 100.00
Atlantic 2/3 UK Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
Autino Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP (Abu Dhabi) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP (Barbican) LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP (Gibraltar) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP (GTA Mauritania) Finance Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP (GTA Senegal) Finance Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Absheron Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Advanced Mobility Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Africa LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Africa Oil Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Agung I Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Agung II Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Alternative Energy Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP America Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Amoco Exploration (Faroes) Limited Membership Interest 100.00
BP Andaman II Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Asia Pacific Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Australia Swaps Management Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Benevolent Fund Trustees LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Biofuels Brazil Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Capital Markets p.l.c. Ordinary 100.00
BP Car Fleet LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Carbon Trading Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP CCUS UK LTD Ordinary 100.00
BP CCUS UK NEP Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Chemicals Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Continental Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Corporate Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP D230 Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP East Kalimantan CBM Limited Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 301

BP Eastern Mediterranean Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Energy Colombia Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Eta Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Absheron) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Alpha) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Azerbaijan) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Caspian Sea) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (D230) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Delta) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Epsilon) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Shafag-Asiman) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (Shah Deniz) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (South Atlantic) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration (STP) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Argentina Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Beta Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration China Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Company (Middle East) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Indonesia Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Libya Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Mediterranean Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration North Africa Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Operating Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Orinoco Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Exploration Personnel Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Express Shopping Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Finance p.l.c. Ordinary 100.00
BP Gamma Holdings LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Gas & Power Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Gas Marketing Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Global Investments LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Global Solutions Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Greece Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Holdings Canada LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Holdings Iraq Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Holdings North America LimiteddOrdinary; Cumulative 
redeemable preference100.00
BP Hydrogen and CCS Development Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Indonesia Investment Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Integrated Solutions Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP International LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Investment Management Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Investments Asia Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Iota Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Iran Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Kappa Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Kuwait Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Lambda Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Low Carbon Development Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Marine Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Mauritania Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Middle East LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Mocambique Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP New Ventures Middle East Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP North East Offshore Wind Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP NZT Power Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil International Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil Kent Refinery Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil Llandarcy Refinery Limited Ordinary 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
302 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

BP Oil Logistics UK Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil UK Limited Ordinary; Debentures 100.00
BP Oil Vietnam Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil Yemen Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Pension Escrow Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Pension Trustees LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Pensions LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Pipelines (BTC) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Pipelines (SCP) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Pipelines (TANAP) Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Pipelines TAP Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Poseidon Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Properties LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP Retail Properties Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Russian Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Russian Ventures Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Scale Up Factory Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Senegal Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Services International Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Shafag-Asiman Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Shipping Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP South America Holdings Ltd Ordinary 100.00
BP Subsea Well Response Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Technology Ventures Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Theta Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Turkey Refining LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
BP UK Fatima Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP UK Retained Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP West Aru I Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP West Aru II Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP West Papua I Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP Zeta Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
BP+Amoco International Limited Ordinary 100.00
Britannic Energy Trading Limited Ordinary 100.00
Britannic Investments Iraq Limited Ordinary 100.00
Britannic Marketing Limited Ordinary 100.00
Britannic Trading Limited Ordinary 100.00
BTC Pipeline Holding Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
BXL Plastics Limited Ordinary; Deferred 100.00
Cadman DBP Limited Ordinary 100.00
Castrol (U.K.) Limited Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Holdings Americas Limited Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Holdings International Limited Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Offshore Limited Ordinary 100.00
Exmoor Nominee Limited Ordinary 51.00
Exmoor Properties GP Limited Ordinary 51.00
Exmoor Properties PF LP Membership Interest 51.00
Fosroc Expandite Limited Ordinary 100.00
Fotech Group Limited Ordinary 100.00
GTA FPSO Company Ltd Ordinary 100.00
Guangdong Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
H2 Teesside Limited Ordinary 100.00
HyGreen Teesside Limited Ordinary 100.00
Insight Analytics Solutions Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
Insight Analytics Solutions Limited Ordinary 100.00
Iraq Petroleum Company Limited Ordinary 100.00
Kenilworth Oil Company LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
Low Carbon Friends Limited Ordinary 100.00
Lubricants UK Limited Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 303

Lytt Limited Ordinary 100.00
Net Zero North Sea Storage Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
Net Zero North Sea Storage Limited Ordinary 100.00
Net Zero Teesside Power Holdings Limited Ordinary 100.00
Net Zero Teesside Power Limited Ordinary 100.00
Open Energi Limited Ordinary 100.00
Open Energy Limited Ordinary 100.00
Pearl River Delta Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
Ropemaker Deansgate Limited Ordinary 100.00
Ropemaker Properties Limited Ordinary 100.00
Shafag (Jabrayil) Solar Limited Ordinary 100.00
Stryde Limited Ordinary 100.00
The BP Share Plans Trustees LimiteddOrdinary 100.00
Viceroy Investments Limited Ordinary 100.00
Technology Centre, Whitchurch Hill, Pangbourne, Reading, RG8 7QR, United Kingdom
Castrol Limited Ordinary 100.00
United States
100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond, VA, 23219, United States
Collegiate Clean Energy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
INGENCO Wholesale Power, L.L.C. Membership Interest 100.00
112 SW 7th Street, Suite 3C, Topeka, Kansas, 66603, United States
Flat Ridge Wind Energy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
1201 Hays Street Tallahassee, FL, 32301
Landfill Energy Systems Florida LLC Membership Interest 100.00
1833 South Morgan Road, Oklahoma City OK 73128, United States
BPX Midstream LLC Membership Interest 100.00
1999 Bryan St., STE 900, Dallas, TX, 75201, United States
Acamar Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Andromedae Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Arche Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Atria Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Bellatrix Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Solar SHH, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Solar SHP, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BPX Operating Company Ordinary 100.00
Buzz Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Cassiopeia Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Cepheus Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Cressida Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Delphinus Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Despina Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Draconis Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Elanor Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Electra Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Juliet Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Maia Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Minkar Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Mira Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Nashira Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Nunki Energy Project LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Peacock Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Perdita Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Persei Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Rigel Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Shaula Energy Project II, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Shaula Energy Project III, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Shaula Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Spica Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Subra Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
304 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Taika Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Tania Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Telesto Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Tesni Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Thalassa Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Venatici Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Zibal Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
208 South LaSalle Street, Suite 814, Chicago, IL, 60604-1101, United States
Dradnats, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
2108 55th Street, Suite 105, Boulder CO 80301, United States
Insight Analytics Solutions USA, Inc Ordinary 100.00
211 E. 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX, 78701, United States
Gulf Coast Environmental Systems, LLC (dba Conifer Systems LLC) Membership Interest 100.00
Toro Energy of Indiana, LLC Membership Interest 60.00
2405 York Road, Ste 201, Lutherville Timonium, MD, 21093-2264, United States
BP Products North America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
251 East Ohio Street, Suite 500, Indianapolis IN 46204, United States
AmProp Finance Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Foundation Incorporated Membership Interest 100.00
Standard Oil Company, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103, Harrisburg, PA 17110, United States
PEI Power II, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
PEI Power LLC Membership Interest 100.00
2626 Glenwood Avenue, Suite 550, Raleigh, NC, 27608, United States
Big Run Power Producers, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, DE, 19808, United States
Amoco Oil Holding Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Pipeline Holding Company Ordinary 100.00
BP International Services Company Ordinary 100.00
Finite Resources, Inc. Ordinary 80.50
Orion Post Land Investments, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
2900 West Road STE 500, East Lansing, MI, 48823, United States
Canton Renewables, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
2908 Poston Avenue, Nashville, TN 37203, United States
CERF Shelby, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Tennessee Renewable Group LLC Membership Interest 100.00
306 W. Main Street, Suite 512, Frankfort, KY, 40601, United States
Fresh-Serve Bakeries LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Thornton Transportation LLC Membership Interest 100.00
334, North Senate Avenue, Indianapolis, IN, 46204-1708, United States
BP Corporation North America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
3800 North Central Avenue, Suite 460, Phoenix, AZ, 85012, United States
Sargas Energy Project, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
400 Cornerstone Drive, Suite 240, Williston VT 05495, United States
Saturn Insurance Inc. Ordinary 100.00
435 Devon Park Drive, Suite 700, Wayne, PA, 19087, United States
Carbon Reduction Corporation Ordinary 80.50
Finite Carbon Corporation Ordinary 80.50
4400 Easton Commons Way , Suite 125, Columbus OH 43219, United States
Baltimore Ennis Land Company, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Exomet, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
The Standard Oil Company Ordinary 100.00
45 Memorial Circle, Augusta ME 04330, United States
BP Pipelines (North America) Inc. Ordinary 100.00
4568 Mayfield Rd. Suite 204, Cleveland, OH, 44121, United States
Satelytics, Inc. Preference 89.46
7 St. Paul Street, Suite 820, Baltimore MD 21202, United States
TA HQ LLC Membership Interest 100.00
TA Ventures LLC Membership Interest 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 305

TA West Greenwich LLC Membership Interest 100.00
701 South Carson Street Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, United States
Amoco Marketing Environmental Services Company Ordinary 100.00
80 State Street, Albany, NY, United States
Model City Energy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Modern Innovative Energy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Seneca Energy II, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
814 Thayer Avenue, Bismarck, ND, 58501-4018, United States
The Anaconda Company Ordinary 100.00
8585 Old Dairy Rd STE 208, Juneau, AK, 99801, United States
Frontier Operation Services, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
920 North King Street, 2nd Floor, Wilmington DE 19801, United States
BPRY Caribbean Ventures LLC Membership Interest 70.00
921 S. Orchard St. Ste G, Boise ID 83705, United States
IGI Resources, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Bank of America Center, 16th Floor, 1111 East Main Street, Richmond, VA, 23219, United States
Amoco Environmental Services Company Ordinary; Preference 100.00
c/o Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
AH Medora LFG, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AHJRLLFG, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AHMLFG, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea AD, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest100.00
Archaea CCS LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Energy II LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Energy Marketing LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Energy Operating LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Energy Services LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Infrastructure, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Lutum, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Operating LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Real Estate Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Archaea Ventures LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Aria Energy East LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Aria Energy LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Aria Energy Operating LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Assai Energy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Aurum Renewables LLC Class B Membership 
Interest100.00
Biofuels Coyote Canyon Biogas, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BioFuels San Bernardino Biogas, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Cefari RNG OKC, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
CES Biogas LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Cherry Island Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
CII Methane Management III, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
CII Methane Management IV, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Eagle Point RNG LLC Membership Interest 100.00
EIF KC Landfill Gas, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Element Markets Renewable Natural Gas, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Emerald City Renewables LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Industrial Power Generating Company, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
INGENCO Renewable Development LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Innovative Energy Systems, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Innovative/Colonie, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Innovative/DANC, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Innovative/Fulton, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
LES Development LLC Membership Interest 100.00
LES Manager LLC Membership Interest 100.00
LES Operations Services LLC Membership Interest 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
306 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

LES Renewable NG LLC Membership Interest 100.00
NextGen Power Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Petro Franchise Systems LLC Membership Interest 100.00
RNG Moovers LLC Class B Membership 
Interest47.50
Rochelle Energy LLC Membership Interest 100.00
South Shelby RNG, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
TA Franchise Systems LLC Membership Interest 100.00
TA Operating LLC Membership Interest 100.00
TA Operating Montana LLC Partnership interest 100.00
TA Ventures 2 LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Timberline Energy, LLC Class A Membership 
Interest100.00
UGID Broad Mountain, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Zeus Renewables LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Zimmerman Energy LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Corporation Service Company 1127 Broadway Street NE, Suite 310 Salem, OR, 17110, United States
Finley BioEnergy, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, United States
AE Cedar Creek Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AE Goshen II Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AE Goshen II Wind Farm LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AE Power Services LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AE Wind PartsCo LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Air BP Canada LLC Membership Interest 100.00
AM/PM International Inc. Ordinary 100.00
American Oil Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco (U.K.) Exploration Company, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Amoco Chemical (Europe) S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Cypress Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Destin Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco International Petroleum Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Louisiana Fractionator Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Main Pass Gathering Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco MB Fractionation Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco MBF Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Netherlands Petroleum Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Nigeria Petroleum Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Norway Oil Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Overseas Exploration Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Properties Incorporated Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Remediation Management Services Corporation Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Research Operating Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Rio Grande Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Somalia Petroleum Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Sulfur Recovery Company Ordinary 100.00
Amoco Tri-States NGL Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
Amprop, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Anaconda Arizona, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Archaea Energy Inc. Ordinary 100.00
ARCO British Limited, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
ARCO El-Djazair Holdings Inc. Ordinary 100.00
ARCO Environmental Remediation, L.L.C. Membership Interest 100.00
ARCO Gaviota Company Ordinary 100.00
ARCO Midcon LLC Membership Interest 100.00
ARCO Unimar Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Atlantic Richfield Company Ordinary; Preference 100.00
Australia Resource Holdings Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Auwahi Wind Energy Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Blueprint Power Technologies LLC Membership Interest 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 307

BP Alternative Energy North America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP America Chemicals Company Ordinary 100.00
BP America Foreign Investments Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP America Inc. Ordinary; Ordinary B 100.00
BP America Production Company Ordinary 100.00
BP AMI Leasing, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Argentina Exploration Company Membership Interest 100.00
BP Argentina Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Berau Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
BP Biofuels Advanced Technology Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Biofuels North America LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Bomberai Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
BP Brazil Tracking L.L.C. Membership Interest 100.00
BP Canada Energy Marketing Corp. Membership Interest 100.00
BP Canada Investments Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Capital Markets America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Carbon Solutions LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Caribbean Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Central Atlantic Offshore Wind Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Central Atlantic Offshore Wind LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Central Pipelines LLC Membership Interest 51.00
BP Chemical Remediation Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP China Exploration and Production Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Company North America Inc. Ordinary; Redeemable 
preference100.00
BP Containment Response System Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Egypt Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Energy Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Energy Holding Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Energy Retail Company California LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Energy Retail Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Exploration & Production Inc. Ordinary; Preference 100.00
BP Gas Supply (Angola) LLC Membership Interest 50.00
BP Gulf of Mexico Midstream Holding LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Latin America LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Latin America Upstream Services Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Louisiana Energy Park LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Lubricants USA Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Mariner Holding Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Midstream Partners GP LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Midstream Partners Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Midstream Partners LP Ordinary 100.00
BP Midwest Product Pipelines Holdings LLC Membership Interest 51.00
BP Northwest Offshore Wind Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Northwest Offshore Wind LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Nutrition Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Offshore Gathering Systems Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Offshore Pipelines Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Offshore Response Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Offshore Wind America Holding Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Offshore Wind America LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Oil Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Oil Shipping Company, USA Ordinary 100.00
BP One Pipeline Company LLC Membership Interest 51.00
BP Pakistan (Badin) Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Pakistan Exploration and Production, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Pipelines (Alaska) Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Pulse Fleet North America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP SC Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
308 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

BP Scale Up Factory North America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Solar Holding LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Solar International Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Southern Cone Company Ordinary 100.00
BP Technology Ventures Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC Membership Interest 70.00
BP US Offshore Wind Energy LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Wind Energy Beacon Holding LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Wind Energy Empire Holding LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BP Wind Energy North America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BP Wiriagar Ltd. Ordinary 100.00
BPX (Eagle Ford) Gathering LLC Membership Interest 75.00
BPX (Karnes) Gathering LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BPX (Permian) Gathering LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BPX Energy Inc. Ordinary 100.00
BPX Gathering Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
BPX Production Company Ordinary 100.00
Burmah Castrol Holdings Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Casitas Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
Castrol Caribbean & Central America Inc. Ordinary 100.00
CH-Twenty, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Clean Eagle RNG, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Coastal Offshore Renewable Energy LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Cuyama Pipeline Company Ordinary 100.00
Elm Holdings Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Energy Global Investments (USA) Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Enstar LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Flat Ridge 2 Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Flat Ridge 2 Wind Energy LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Flat Ridge 2 Wind Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Flat Ridge Interconnection LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Foseco Holding, Inc. Membership Interest 100.00
Foseco, Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Fowler I Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Fowler Ridge Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Fowler Ridge I Land Investments LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Fowler Ridge II Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Fowler Ridge III Wind Farm LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Fowler Ridge Wind Farm LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Gardena Holdings Inc. Ordinary 100.00
Highlands Ethanol, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Ken-Chas Reserve Company Ordinary 100.00
Lightning Renewables, LLC Membership Interest 60.00
Mardi Gras Transportation System Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Mavrix, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Mehoopany Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Mountain City Remediation, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
North America Funding Company Ordinary 100.00
Orion Delaware Mountain Wind Farm LP Membership Interest 100.00
Orion Energy Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Orion Energy L.L.C. Membership Interest 100.00
Pan American Energy US LLC Membership Interest 51.00
Remediation Management Services Company Ordinary 100.00
Richfield Oil Corporation Ordinary 100.00
Rolling Thunder I Power Partners, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Sherbino I Holdings LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Sherbino Mesa I Land Investments LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Southern Ridge Pipeline Holding Company Ordinary 100.00
Stryde Inc. Ordinary 100.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 309

Thorntons LLC Membership Interest 100.00
TLK Holding Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
TLK Intermediate Holding Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
TLK Operating Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Toledo Refinery Holding Company LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Union Texas International Corporation Ordinary 100.00
Vastar Pipeline, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Westlake Houston Development, LLC Membership Interest 100.00
Whiting Clean Energy, Inc. Membership Interest 100.00
Venezuela
Av. Francisco de Miranda, con primera avenida de Los Palos, Grandes, Edif Cavendes, piso 9, ofi 903, Los Palos Grandes, 
Caracas / Miranda, Chacao / Caracas, 1060, Venezuela
BP Petroleo y Gas, S.A. Ordinary 100.00
Viet Nam
9th Floor, 22-36 Nguyen Hue Street, 57-69F Dong Khoi Street, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
Castrol BP Petco Limited Liability Company Membership Interest 65.00
Zimbabwe
Barking Road, Willowvale, Harare, Zimbabwe
Castrol Zimbabwe (Private) Limited Membership Interest 100.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
310 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Related undertakings other than subsidiaries
Company by country of incorporation and registered office address Ownership interest %
Albania
Air BP Albania Sh.A., Aeroporti Nderkombetar i Tiranes, “Nene Tereza”, Post Box 2933 in Tirana, Albania
Air BP Albania SHA Ordinary 50.00
Argentina
Av. Leandro N. Alem 1180, piso 11°, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Field Services Enterprise S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Lithos Desarollos Energeticos S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Pan American E&P S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Parque Eolico Del Sur S.A. Ordinary 27.50
Terminal CP S.A.U. Ordinary 50.00
Vientos Ombu III S.A. Ordinary 25.00
Calle 14, No 781, Piso 2, Oficina 3, Ciudad de La Plata, Provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina
Barranca Sur Minera S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Carlos María Della Paolera 265, Piso 22, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina
Axion Energy Argentina S.A. Membership Interest 50.00
RSE & RCE S.A.U. Ordinary 50.00
Florida 1, Piso 10, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Oleoductos del Valle (Oldelval) S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Francisco Behr 20, Barrio Pueyrredon, Comodoro Rivadavia, Provincia del Chubut, Argentina
Manpetrol S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Lavalle 190, piso 6 Depto L, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Vientos Patagonicos Chubut Norte III S.A. Ordinary 24.50
Vientos Sudamericanos Chubut Norte IV S.A. Ordinary 24.50
O´Higgins N° 194, Rio Grande, Argentina
Pan American Fueguina S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Pan American Sur S.A. Ordinary 50.00
San Martin 140, Piso 2, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Central Dock Sud S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Australia
11 Lagoon Court, Samford Valley, QLD 4520, Australia
Australasian Lubricants Manufacturing Company Pty Ltd Ordinary A 50.00
34 Kent Road, Mascot, NSW 2020, Australia
5B Holdings Pty Limited Preference Series B 
(27.47%) 9.80
CBW Level 19, 181 William Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia
3725 Sharp Development Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
433 Link Development Company Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
892 Yarrawonga Development Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Goorambat Landco Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Goulburn River FinCo Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Goulburn River Fund Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Goulburn River HoldCo 2 Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Goulburn River Trust Units 49.97
Lightsource Asset Management Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Australia SPV 2 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Australia SPV 3 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Australia SPV 4 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Development Services Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Energy Markets Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Labs Australia Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource LS Labs Australia Operations Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy (Australia) Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lower Wonga Solar Farm Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
LS Australia Equity HoldCo1 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
LS Australia FinCo 1 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
LS Australia FinCo 2 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
LS Australia FinCo 3 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 311

LS Australia HoldCo 1 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
LS Land Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Sun Spot 3 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Wellington LandCo Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Wellington North Solar Farm Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
West Mokoan Solar Farm Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
West Wyalong FinCo Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
West Wyalong Fund Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
West Wyalong HoldCo 2 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
West Wyalong Trust Membership Interest 49.97
Woolooga BESS FinCo Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga BESS Fund Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga BESS HoldCo 2 Pty Limited Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga FinCo Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga Fund Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga HoldCo 2 Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga Trust Membership Interest 49.97
Wunghnu Solar Farm FinCo Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Company Matters Pty Ltd, Level 12, 680 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia
Airport Fuel Services Pty. Limited Ordinary 20.00
Cairns Airport Refuelling Service Pty Ltd Ordinary 33.33
Level 10, 12 Creek Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia
Ocwen Energy Pty Ltd Ordinary 49.50
Level 16, 80 Collins Street, South Tower, Melbourne, Victoria, 3000, Australia
Australian Renewable Energy Hub Pty Ltd Ordinary 48.32
Level 16, Alluvion Building, 58 Mounts Bay Road, Perth, WA, Australia
North West Shelf Lifting Coordinator Pty Ltd Ordinary B (100.00%) 16.67
Level 3, Unit 3, 22 Albert Road, South Melbourne VIC 3205, Australia
Australian Terminal Operations Management Pty Ltd Ordinary 50.00
Suite 8.02, 28 O'Connell Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000, Australia
XPANSIV Limited Ordinary (18.87%); 
Preference Series A 
(26.16%) 19.86
Austria
Am Tankhafen 4, 4020 Linz, Austria
TLM Tanklager Management GmbH Membership Interest 49.00
Brucknerstraße 4, 1041 Wien, Austria
ABG Autobahn-Betriebe GmbH Membership Interest 32.58
Innsbrucker Bundesstraße 95, 5020 Salzburg, Austria
Salzburg Fuelling GmbH Membership Interest 50.00
Radlpaßstraße 6, 8502 Lannach, Austria
Erdol-Lagergesellschaft m.b.H. Membership Interest 23.00
Trabrennstraße 6-8 3, Wien, A-1020, Austria
Aircraft Refuelling Company GmbH Membership Interest 33.33
Bahamas
Trinity Place Annex, Corner of Frederick & Shirley Streets, P.O. Box N-4805, Nassau, Bahamas
PAE E & P Bolivia Limited Ordinary 50.00
Pan American Energy Investments Ltd. Ordinary 50.00
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)
Av San Martin 1700, Cuarto Anillo, Edificio Centro Empresarial Equipetrol, Piso 6, Zona Oeste, Equipetrol Norte, Santa Cruz de 
la Sierra, Bolivia (Plurinational State of)
YPFB Chaco S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Cuarto anillo, Avda. Ovidio Barbery N° 4200, Edificio Torre, e/ Jaime Román y Victor Pinto, Equipetrol Norte, Santa Cruz de la 
Sierra, Bolivia (Plurinational State of)
PAE Oil & Gas Bolivia Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Brazil
1675 South State Street, Suite B, Dover, Kent Country, DE, 19901 US, Brazil
Pan American Energy Energias Renovaveis Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Al Santos, 74, Andar 7 Conj 72 Sala 53, Cerqueira Cesar, Sao Paulo, 01.418-000, Brazil
Lightsource Milagres Holding 1 S.A. Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
312 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Alameda Santos, 74, 7º andar, conjunto 72, sala 43, Cerqueira Cesar, Municipality of São Paulo, State of São Paulo - SP - CEP 
01418-000, Brazil
Lightsource Bom Lugar Holding 2 S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Brasil Energia Renovável Particições S.A. Membership Interest 49.97
Alameda Santos,74, 7th floor, suite 72, room 111, Cerqueira César, Municipality of São Paulo, State of São Paulo, 01418-000, 
Brazil
Lightsource Bom Lugar Holding 1 S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Avenida Atlântica, no. 1.130, 2nd floor (part), Copacabana,RJ, Rio de Janeiro, 22021-000, Brazil
NFX Combustíveis Marítimos Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
A v e n i d a  B e r n a r d i n o  d e  C a m p o s ,  9 8 ,  1 2 t h  F l o o r ,  R o o m  3 8 ,  S u i t e  A ,  P a r a í s o ,  Z i p  C o d e  0 4 0 0 4 - 0 4 0 ,  S a o  P a u ͏ l o ,  B r a z i l
Lightsource Brasil Energia Renovável Ltda Ordinary 49.97
Avenida das Nações Unidas, 12.399, 4º andar, cj. 41B, sala 01, São Paulo, Brazil
Itumbiara Trading Comercio Importação e Exportação ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Avenida das Nações Unidas, nº 12.399, 4º andar, Brooklin Paulista, São Paulo, CEP 04578-000, Brazil
BP Bunge Bioenergia S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Avenida Paris, 4077, Suite 3, Cascata,São Paulo State, Paulínia, 13046-061, Brazil
Terminal de Combustiveis Paulinia S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Cidade de Caraúbas, Estado do Rio Grande do Norte, Sítio Retiro, S/N, Estrada Caraúbas sentido Mirandas, Km 15, lado 
esquerdo, Zona Rural, CEP 59780-000, Brazil
Lightsource Caraúbas Geração de Energia Ltda Ordinary 49.97
City and State of Rio de Janeiro,at Rua Voluntários da Pátria, No. 113, 11 floor, Botafogo, 22.270-000, Brazil
Gas Natural Acu S.A. Ordinary 30.00
Estrada de São Romão, KM23, S/N, Zona Rural, Fazenda São Francisco, Buritizeiro/MG, CEP 39280-000, Brazil
Lightsource Andorinhas Geração de Energia Ltda. Ordinary 49.97
Estrada Mossoró sentido Jaguaruana, S/N, Km 48, lado esquerdo, Zona Rural, Sitio Aroeira Grande, Município de Baraúna/RN, 
CEP 59695-000, Brazil
Lightsource Jaguar Geração de Energia Ltda Ordinary 49.97
Estrada Municipal Itumbiara / Chacoeira Dourada, Fazenda Jandaia, Gleba B, Goiás, Itumbiara, 75516-126, Brazil
BP Bioenergia Itumbiara S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Estrada que liga Brejo Santo a Vila Conceição, porteira da Caatinga Grande, S/N, Zona Rural, Sitio Ludovico, Município de Brejo 
Santo/CE, CEP 63260-000, Brazil
Lightsource Milagres Expansão Geração de Energia Ltda Ordinary 49.97
Fazenda Água Amarela, S/N, Itapegipe, Minas Gerais, 38240-000, Brazil
Itapagipe Bioenergia Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Fazenda Guariroba, SN, Zona Rural, Pontes Gestal, São Paulo, 15500-000, Brazil
Guariroba Bioenergia LTDA Ordinary 50.00
Fazenda Moema, s/n, Rural, Orindiuva, São Paulo, 15480-000, Brazil
Bunge Açúcar e Bioenergia S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Fazenda Recanto, Zona Rural, CEP 38.300-898, Minas Gerais, Ituiutaba, Brazil
BP Bioenergia Ituiutaba Ltda. Membership Interest 50.00
Fazenda Saco Dantas, S/N, Área 3 e Área 4, Praia do Açu, São João da Barra, Rio de Janeiro, 28.200-000, Brazil
UTE GNA II Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 33.50
Fazenda Santa Bárbara, S/N, Distrito de Zelândia, Santa Juliana, Minas Gerais, 38175-000, Brazil
Santa Juliana Bioenergia Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Fazenda São Bento da Ressaca, S/N, Zona Rural, Frutal, Minas Gerais, 38200-000, Brazil
Frutal Bioenergia Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Fazenda Terra Nova, located at Rod. Padre Cicero (CE 153), S/N, KM 58, Lima Campos,Ceara, Ico, 63.435-000, Brazil
Lightsource Bom Lugar IV Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bom Lugar IX Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bom Lugar V Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bom Lugar VI Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bom Lugar VII Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bom Lugar VIII Geração de Energia S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Fazenda Vista Alegre I, KM 25, S/N, Zona Rural, Jaíba/ MG, CEP 39508-000, Brazil
Lightsource Pomar do Sertão Geração de Energia Ltda. Ordinary 49.97
KM 2.4 Sítio Cajueiro road - KM491 BR 116 KM 492, Caatinga Grande Zona Rural, Municipality of Abaiara, State of Ceará, 
63.240.000, Brazil
Lightsource Milagres I Geração de Energia S.A Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Milagres II Geração de Energia S.A Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Milagres III Geração de Energia S.A Ordinary 49.97Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 313

Lightsource Milagres IV Geração de Energia S.A Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Milagres V Geração de Energia S.A Ordinary 49.97
No. 804, 5th floor, Glória, Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 22210-010, Brazil
Gas Natural Açu Infraestrutura S.A. Ordinary 27.91
Praça Gago Coutinho, 540 – Ed. Aeroporto Internacional de Salvador – Box Air BP, city of Salvador, State of Bahia, 41.602-065, 
Brazil
Air BP Petrobahia Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Rod. BA 827, S/N, KM 05 Estrada do Cantinho dos Aflitos, Fazenda Divino Espirito Santo, City of Barreiras, State of Bahia, 
47.819-899, Brazil
Lightsource Rio Branco Geração de Energia Ltda Ordinary 49.97
Rodovia Doutor Mendel Steinbruch 10.800, Distrito Industrial, Maracanau, Ceara, 61.939-906, Brazil
Ventos De Santa Virginia Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Ventos De Santo Ubaldo Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Ventos De Santo Urbano I Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Ventos De Sao Romualdo Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Ventos De Sao Teofano Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
VENTOS DE SAO TEONAS ENERGIAS RENOVAVEIS S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Ventos De Sao Thomas Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Ventos De Sao Tilao Energias Renovaveis S.A. Ordinary 50.00
VENTOS DE SAO VIGILIO ENERGIAS RENOVAVEIS S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Rodovia GO 410, km 51 à esquerda, Fazenda Canadá, s/n, Zona Rural, Goiás, Edéia, 75940-000, Brazil
BP Bioenergia Tropical S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Rodovia GO 410, km 51 à esquerda, Fazenda Canadá, s/n, Zona Rural, Sala 01 Estado de Goiás, Edéia, 75940-000, Brazil
Tropical Biogás Ltda Ordinary 50.00
Rodovia Iaciara sentido Alvorada, Margem Direita, S/N, Zona Rural, Fazenda Ferradura e Campo Aberto, Município de Posse/
GO, CEP 73900-000, Brazil
Lightsource Guara Geracao de Energia Ltda Ordinary 49.97
Rodovia SP - 463 Elyeser Montenegro Magalhãe, KM 186, S/N, Zona Rural,São Paulo, Ouroeste, 15685-000, Brazil
Usina Ouroeste - Açúcar e Álcool Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Rodovia TO 010 KM 20, S/N, Zona Rural, Cidade de Pedro Afonso, Tocantins, 77710-000, Brazil
Pedro Afonso Bioenergia Ltda. Ordinary 50.00
Rua Manoel da Nóbrega n°1280, 10° andar, Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, 04001-902, Brazil
Pan American Energy do Brasil Ltda. Membership Interest 50.00
Rua Principal, Fazenda Recanto, Zona Rural, Caixa Postal 01, Minas Gerais, Ituiutaba, 38.300-898, Brazil
BP Bioenergia Campina Verde Ltda. Membership Interest 50.00
Rua Voluntários da Pátria n. 113, 11th floor, Botafogo, City and State of Rio de Janeiro, Zip code: 22.270-000., Brazil
Açu Trucked LNG S.A. Membership Interest 30.00
Sítio Paus Pretos, S/N, BR 316, Rood Floresta/Petrolandia, Km 314, Floresta/PE, Zip Code 56400-000, Brazil
Lightsource Flor Geração de Energia Ltda. Ordinary 49.97
Cayman Islands
190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, KY1-9005, Cayman Islands
Georgian Pipeline Company Ordinary 30.37
P.O. Box 309, Ugland House, 113 South Church Street, George Town, Cayman Islands
Azerbaijan Gas Supply Company Limited Ordinary 23.99
Azerbaijan International Operating Company Ordinary 30.37
BTC International Investment Co. Membership Interest 30.10
South Caucasus Pipeline Company Limited Membership Interest 28.83
South Caucasus Pipeline Holding Company Limited Membership Interest 28.83
South Caucasus Pipeline Option Gas Company Limited Ordinary 28.83
The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline Company Membership Interest 30.10
PO Box 472, 2nd Floor, Harbour Place, 103 South Church Street, George Town, KY1-1106, Cayman Islands
R&B Technology Holding CO., LTD Series B Anti-Dilution 
(13.33%); Series B 
Internal Ext (40.00%); 
Preference Series A 
(78.95%); Preference 
Series B+ (67.21%) 27.16
Chile
Nueva de Lyon Nº 145, piso 12, oficina 1203, Edificio Costa, Santiago de Chile, Chile
Pan American Energy Chile Limitada Ordinary 50.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
314 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

China
10-11/FTime Finance Center, No.4001 Shennan Dadao, Futian Street, Futian District, Guangdong Province, Shenzhen, China
Guangdong Dapeng LNG Company Limited Membership Interest 30.00
11/F, Building No.2, No. 32 Lingang Road Section One, Xihang Port Street, Shuangliu District,Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China
CNAF Air BP General Aviation Fuel Company Limited Membership Interest 49.00
5th Floor, Guangsha Ruiming Building, No. 231 Moganshan Road, Xihu District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China
BP Sinopec (ZheJiang) Petroleum Co., Ltd Membership Interest 40.00
A3#608, Dongjiang Commercial Center, #599 Eerduosi Road, Free Trade Zone (Dongjiang Free Trade Zone), China
Xin Ying Energy Marketing Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 50.00
Fu Yong Town, Bao An county, Guangdong Province, ShenZhen Airport, China
Shenzhen Cheng Yuan Aviation Oil Company Limited Membership Interest 25.00
Guangdong Dapeng Liquefied Natural Gas Filling Station, Cheng Tou Corner, Xia Sha Village, Dapeng Street, Dapeng New 
District, Shenzhen, China
Shenzhen Dapeng LNG Marketing Company Limited Membership Interest 30.00
No. B933, 9-14/F Office, Building A, Baoye Center, NO.31 JIA, China
Castrol DongFeng Lubricant Co., Ltd Membership Interest 50.00
Room 3501, Room 3502, Room 3503, No.62, Jinsui Road, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, China
Guangzhou Aulton New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 20.00
Room 526, No.13,Longxue Avenue middle, Nansha District, Guangzhou, China
BP Guangzhou Development Oil Products Company Limited Membership Interest 40.00
Room 8309, Floor 3, Yufanghailian Office Building, No. 1 Indian Ocean Road, West Coast Comprehensive Bonded Area, 
Qingdao, China
BP SPG Energy Trading Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 49.00
Room A, building B, 5th floor, no. 22 Gangkou road, Jiangmen, China
BP Petro China Jiangmen Fuels Co., Ltd. Membership Interest 49.00
Room B1, 11th Floor, No.22 Gang Kou Yi Road, Peng Jiang District,Guangdong Province, Jiangmen, China
BP PetroChina Petroleum Co., Ltd Membership Interest 49.00
Cuba
Calle 6 No 319, esq 5ta. Ave., Miramar, Playa, La Habana, Cuba
Castrol Cuba S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Cyprus
90 Archiepiskopou str, Dromolaxia – Meneou, 7020 Larnaca, Cyprus
LCA Aviation Fuelling Systems Limited Ordinary 35.00
Denmark
GA Centervej 1, Billund, DK-7190, Denmark
Billund Refuelling I/S Membership Interest 50.00
Kastrup Lufthavn, 2770 Kastrup, Denmark
Danish Refuelling Services I/S Membership Interest 50.00
Danish Tankage Services I/S Membership Interest 50.00
Københavns, Lufthavn, 2770 Kastrup, Denmark
Braendstoflageret Kobenhavns Lufthavn I/S Partnership interest 20.83
Egypt
14 Kamal El Tawil ST, Zamalek, Cairo, Egypt
Lightsource BP Hassan Allam Developments for Renewable Energy S.A.E Ordinary 24.99
5 El Mokhayam El Daiem St, 6th Sector, Nasr City, Egypt
El Temsah Petroleum Company "PETROTEMSAH" Ordinary 25.00
Mediteranean Gas Co. "MEDGAS" Ordinary 25.00
70/72 Road 200, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt
Pharaonic Petroleum Company "PhPC" Ordinary 25.00
85 El Nasr Road, Cairo, Egypt
Natural Gas Vehicles Company "NGVC" Ordinary 40.00
Al Shaheed St., Nasr City, Cairo, Egypt
El Burg Offshore Company (EBOC) Ordinary 20.00
Building No. 349 & 351, Third Sector of City Centre, Fifth Settlement, New Cairo, Egypt
United Gas Derivatives Company "UGDC" Ordinary 33.33
Street 200, Building 70-72, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt
Damietta Petroleum Company "PETRODAMIETTA" Ordinary 50.00
North El Burg Petroleum Company "PETRONEB" Ordinary 25.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 315

France
1 Place Gustave Eiffel, Rungis, 94150, France
Société d'Avitaillement et de Stockage de Carburants Aviation "SASCA" Membership Interest 40.00
1165 rue Jean-René Guilibert Gauthier de la Lauzière – CS 20583, Aix-les-Milles Cedex 02, 13290, France
Lightsource France Development SAS Ordinary 49.97
150 Avenue Yves Farge, Saint Pierre des Corps, 37700, France
Depot Petrolier De Saint-Pierre Des Corps D.P.S.P.C. Membership Interest 20.00
27 Route du Bassin Numéro 6, Gennevilliers, 92230, France
Société de Gestion de Produits Pétroliers - SOGEPP Ordinary 37.00
3 Rue des Vignes, Aéroport Roissy Charles de Gaulle, Tremblay en France, 93290, France
Fuelling Aviation Service - FAS Membership Interest 50.00
562 Avenue du Parc de l'Ile, Nanterre, 92000, France
Entrepot petrolier de Chambery Ordinary 32.00
65 Rue d'Italie, Colombier-Saugnieu, 69124, France
Stockage de Carburant d’Aviation Lyon Membership Interest 40.00
Aeroport Bale Mulhouse, Saint-Louis, 68300, France
Stockage de Carburant d’Aviation Membership Interest 40.00
Aeroport Toulouse-Blagnac, Blagnac, 31700, France
Stockage de Carburant d’Aviation Toulouse Membership Interest 40.00
Germany
Am Borsigturm 68, Berlin, 13507, Germany
Service4Charger Holding GmbH Preference Series A 
(75.00%) 19.88
Am Stadthafen 60, 45881 Gelsenkirchen, Germany
TransTank GmbH Ordinary 50.00
An der Braker Bahn 22, 26122 Oldenburg, Germany
Klaus Köhn GmbH Ordinary 50.00
Köhn & Plambeck GmbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 50.00
Berghausener Straße 96, 40764 Langenfeld, Germany
AGES International GmbH & Co. KG, Langenfeld Partnership interest 24.70
AGES Maut System GmbH & Co. KG, Langenfeld Partnership interest 24.70
Brunnenstraße 19-21, Berlin, 10119, Germany
Digital Charging Solutions GmbH Membership Interest 33.33
c/o WeWork, Kemperplatz 1, Berlin, 10785, Germany
Lightsource Development Deutschland GmbH Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource GP GmbH Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource LP 1 GmbH Ordinary 49.97
Godorfer Hauptstraße 186, 50997 Köln, Germany
Rhein-Main-Rohrleitungstransportgesellschaft mbH Ordinary 35.00
Jenfelder Allee 80, Hamburg, 22039, Germany
STDG Strassentransport Dispositions Gesellschaft mbH Ordinary 50.00
Konsul-Smidt-Strasse 14, 28217 Bremen, Germany
Etzel-Kavernenbetriebsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 33.33
Etzel-Kavernenbetriebs-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Ordinary 33.33
Luisenstraße 5 a, 26382 Wilhelmshaven, Germany
Ammenn GmbH Ordinary 50.00
Kurt Ammenn GmbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 50.00
Rheinstraße 36, 49090 Osnabrück, Germany
Fip Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary 50.00
Heinrich Fip GmbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 50.00
Saganer Straße 31, 90475 Nürnberg, Germany
Beer Energien GmbH & Co. KG Membership Interest 50.00
Beer GmbH Ordinary 50.00
Spaldingstraße 64, 20097 Hamburg, Germany
Mobene Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 50.00
Mobene Beteiligungs Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary 50.00
Mobene GmbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 50.00
Mobene Verwaltungs-GmbH Ordinary 50.0014. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
316 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Sportallee 6, 22335 Hamburg, Germany
Dusseldorf Fuelling Services GbR Membership Interest 33.00
Hamburg Tank Service (HTS) GbR Partnership interest 33.00
HFS Hamburg Fuelling Services GbR Partnership interest 50.00
LFS Langenhagen Fuelling Services GbR Partnership interest 50.00
TFSS Turbo Fuel Services Sachsen GbR Partnership interest 20.00
TGFH Tanklager-Gesellschaft Frankfurt-Hahn GbR Partnership interest 50.00
TGHL Tanklager-Gesellschaft Hannover-Langenhagen GbR Partnership interest 50.00
TGK Tanklagergesellschaft Koln-Bonn Partnership interest 25.00
Steindamm 55, 20099 Hamburg, Germany
GVÖ Gebinde-Verwertungsgesellschaft der Mineralölwirtschaft mbH Ordinary 20.36
Überseeallee 1, 20457, Hamburg, Germany
Flughafen Hannover Pipeline Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH Ordinary 50.00
Flughafen Hannover Pipelinegesellschaft mbH & Co. KG Partnership interest 50.00
Wesermünder Straße 1, 27729 Hambergen, Germany
Tecklenburg GmbH Ordinary 50.00
Tecklenburg GmbH & Co. Energiebedarf KG Partnership interest 50.00
Westfalendamm 166, 44141 Dortmund, Germany
DOPARK GmbH Ordinary 25.00
Wittener Straße 45, 44789 Bochum, Germany
CSG Convenience Service GmbH Ordinary 24.80
Ghana
Number 1, Rehoboth Place, Dade Street, North Labone Estates, Accra, Greater Accra, Accra Metropolitan, P. O. BOX CT327, 
Ghana
BP West Africa Supply Limited Ordinary 50.00
Greece
2,Vouliagmenis Ave & Papaflessa, 16777 Elliniko, Attika, Athens, Greece
GISSCO S.A. Ordinary 50.00
68, Vasilisis Sofias Ave., Athens, 115 28, Greece
AI ENERGY SINGLE MEMBER P.C. Ordinary 49.97
Akarnanika Photovoltaic Systems Single-Member Private Company Ordinary 49.97
Clean Energy 3 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Clean Energy 5 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Enipeas Single Member S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 4 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 5 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 6 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Greece Development Single Member S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Greece Projects Single Member S.A. Ordinary 49.97
International airport "El. Venizelos", Athens, Greece
SAFCO SA Ordinary 33.33
Local Community of Kyrakalis, number 0, Municipality of Grevena, 51100, Greece
Clean Energy 1 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Clean Energy 2 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Clean Energy 4 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Clean Energy 6 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 1 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 2 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 3 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 7 S.M.S.A Ordinary 49.97
Green Energy Plus 8 S.M.S.A. Ordinary 49.97
Sun Power 1 S.M.P.C Other 49.97
India
1207-1212,A2, Palladium, Nr., Orchid Wood Opp. Divyabhaskar, Corporate Rd, Makarba, Ahmedabad, India
Blu-Smart Mobility Private Limited Preference Series A 
(50.61%); Preference 
Series A1 (19.43%); 
Preference Series A2 
(19.20%) 20.96Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 317

3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai, 400 021, India
Reliance BP Mobility Limited Ordinary 49.00
Magenta House, Plot No. D-285, MIDC, Turbhe, Navi Mumbai, India, 400705
Magenta EV Solutions Private Limited Preference (53.47%) 20.89
One World Center, 16th Floor, Tower 2A, Senapati Bapat Marg, Mumbai, Mumbai City MH 400013, India
Eversource Capital Private Limited Ordinary 24.99
Unit Nos.71 & 737th Floor, Maker Maxity, 2nd North Avenue, Bandra - Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051, 
Maharashtra, India
India Gas Solutions Private Limited Ordinary 50.00
Indonesia
AKR Tower 25th floor, Jalan Panjang No.5, Kebon Jeruk, Jakarta Barat, 11530, Indonesia
PT. Aneka Petroindo Raya Ordinary 49.90
PT. Dirgantara Petroindo Raya Ordinary 49.90
Iraq
Iraqi Airways HQ Building, Baghdad International Airport, Baghdad, Iraq
United Iraqi Company for Airports and Ground Handling Services Limited (MASIL) Ordinary 19.60
Naz City, Building J, Suite 10 Erbil, Iraq
Mach Monument Aviation Fuelling Co. Ltd. Ordinary 70.00
Ireland
70 Northumberland Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin, D04 VH66, Ireland
BLS Bulk Liquid Storage Cork Limited Ordinary 30.00
Trinity House, Charleston Road, Ranelagh, Dublin, D06 C8X4, Ireland
Lightsource Ireland Development Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Ireland SPV 6 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Ireland Limited Ordinary 49.97
Powerverse Connect Limited Ordinary 49.97
Ubiworx Systems Designated Activity Company Ordinary 49.97
Israel
3 Shenkar Street, Herzelia, Israel
StoreDot Ltd. Preference Series C 
(21.47%); Preference 
Series D (14.45%) 5.10
Italy
Via Emilia 1, 20097 San Donato Milanese, Italy
Azule Energy Angola S.p.A Membership Interest 50.00
Via Giacomo Leopardi 7, Milano, 20123, Italy
Belenos s.r.l. Ordinary 32.48
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy Development, S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy Finco s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy Holdings S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 1 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 10 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 11 S.r.l Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 12 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 13 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 14 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 15 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 16 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 17 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 18 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 19 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 2 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 20 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 21 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 22 S.R.L. Quotas 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 23 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 24 S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 3 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 4 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 6 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
318 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 8 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy SPV 9 s.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Pollon s.r.l. Ordinary 32.48
Via Sardegna, Rome, 38 00187, Italy
Air BP Italia Spa Ordinary 50.00
Via Venti Settembre, 69, Palermo, 90141, Italy
EM Sicilia Green S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Marsala Energie S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Melilli Energie S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
ML Energie Rinnovabili S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
Viale Francesco Scaduto, 2d, Palermo, 90144, Italy
HF Solar 1 S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
HF Solar 10 S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
HF Solar 2 S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
HF Solar 3 S.r.l. Ordinary 49.97
HF Solar 4 S.r.l Ordinary 49.97
HF Solar 5 S.r.l Ordinary 49.97
Japan
4-2 Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Ishikari Offshore Wind LLC Ordinary 49.00
Oga Katagami Akita Offshore Wind LLC Membership Interest 27.78
Korea (the Republic of)
#125 DD-01, 14F, 416 Hangang-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of)
SK Devco Solar Power Plant Co., Ltd. Ordinary 49.97
#125 DD-02, 14F, 416 Hangang-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of)
LS Renewable Energy Co., Ltd. Ordinary 49.97
#125 DD-03, 14F, 416 Hangang-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of)
Gangjin Solar Power Plant Co., Ltd. Ordinary 49.97
#132, 14F, 416 Hangang-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of)
Lightsource Renewable Energy Development South Korea Co., Ltd Ordinary 49.97
109 Sideung-ro, Hwangsan-myeon, Jeonlanam-do, Korea (the Republic of)
Haenam Solar Power Plant Co., Ltd. Ordinary 49.97
Mauritius
3rd Floor, Standard Chartered Tower, Bank Street, 19 Cybercity, Ebene, 72201, Mauritius
EverSource Management Holdings Ordinary 24.99
Mexico
Av. Paseo de la Reforma 505 piso 32, Colonia Cuauhtémoc, Delegación Cuauhtémoc (06500), CDMX, Mexico
EMSEP S.A. de C.V. Ordinary 50.00
Torre A, piso 4, oficina 402, Calzada Legaria 549, Colonia 10 de Abril, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de Mexico, C. P. 
11250, Mexico
Hokchi Energy S.A. de C.V. Ordinary 50.00
Mozambique
Praca Dos Trabalhadores, Nr 09, Distrito Urbano 1, Maputo, Mozambique
Maputo International Airport Fuelling Services (MIAFS) Limitada Membership Interest 50.00
Netherlands
Anchoragelaan 6, 1118LD Luchthaven Schiphol, Netherlands
Gezamenlijke Tankdienst Schiphol B.V. Ordinary 50.00
Bos en Lommerplein 280, Amsterdam, 1055RW, Netherlands
Lightsource BP Hassan Allam Holdings B.V. Ordinary 24.99
Butaanweg 215, NL-3196 KC Vondelingenplaat, Rotterdam, Havennummer, 3045, Netherlands
N.V. Rotterdam-Rijn-Pijpleiding Maatschappij (RRP) Ordinary 44.40
d'Arcyweg 76, 3198 NA Europoort Rotterdam, Netherlands
Azule Energy Angola (Block 18) B.V. Ordinary 50.00
Gustav Mahlerplein 28, 1082MA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
Lightsource Renewable Energy Netherlands Development B.V. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Netherlands Holdings B.V. Ordinary 49.97
Zonneweide Liesvelden B.V. Ordinary 49.97
Zonneweide LS 4 B.V. Ordinary 49.97
Zonneweide LS 5 B.V. Ordinary 49.97Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 319

Zonneweide LS 6 B.V. Ordinary 49.97
Moezelweg 101, 3198LS Europoort, Rotterdam, Netherlands
Maatschap Europoort Terminal Partnership interest 50.00
Oude Vijfhuizerweg 6, 1118LV Luchthaven, Schiphol, Netherlands
Aircraft Fuel Supply B.V. Ordinary 25.00
Rijndwarsweg 3, 3198 LK Europoort, Rotterdam, Netherlands
BP AOC Pumpstation Maatschap Membership Interest 50.00
BP Esso AOC Maatschap Partnership interest 22.80
BP Esso Pipeline Maatschap Membership Interest 50.00
Maasvlakte Europoort Pipeline Maatschap Partnership interest 50.00
Team Terminal B.V. Ordinary 22.80
Strawinskylaan 1725, 1077XX Amsterdam, Netherlands
Azule Energy Angola B.V. Membership Interest 50.00
Azule Energy Angola Production B.V. Membership Interest 50.00
Routex B.V. Ordinary 25.00
New Zealand
106b Bush Road, Auckland, Albany, 0632, New Zealand
Wiri Oil Services Limited Ordinary 27.78
247 Cameron Road, Tauranga, 3110, New Zealand
McFall Fuel Limited Ordinary 49.00
RMF Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.00
399 Moray Place, Dunedin, 9016, New Zealand
RD Petroleum Limited Ordinary 49.00
Corporate Services New Zealand Limited, Level 5, 79 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
LSNZ Glorit Holdco Limited Ordinary 49.97
Level 2, Harbour City Tower, 29 Brandon Street, Wellington Central, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand
Kowhai Park I GP Limited Ordinary 24.99
Kowhai Park I LP Limited Partner 49.97
Kowhai Park P GP Limited Ordinary 49.97
Kowhai Park P LP Limited Partner 99.95
Level 3, 139 The Terrace, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand
New Zealand Oil Services Limited Ordinary 50.00
Level 5, 79 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Lightsource Development Services New Zealand Limited Ordinary 49.97
LSNZ Kowhai Park HoldCo Limited Ordinary 49.97
Norway
Postboks 133, Gardermoen, NO-2061, Norway
Gardermoen Fuelling Services AS Ordinary 33.33
Postboks 134, Gardermoen, NO-2061, Norway
Oslo Lufthavns Tankanlegg AS Ordinary 33.33
Postboks 36, Stjordal, NO-7501, Norway
Flytanking AS Ordinary 50.00
Oman
P.O.Box 20302/211, 20302, Oman
BP Dhofar LLC Ordinary 49.00
Paraguay
Av. España 1369 esquina San Rafael, Asunción, Paraguay
Axion Energy Paraguay S.R.L. Membership Interest 50.00
Peru
Avenida Ricardo Rivera Navarrete n.501 / room 1602, Lima, Peru
Air BP PBF del Peru S.A.C. Ordinary 50.00
Poland
Grunwaldzka 472B, Gdansk, 80-309, Poland
Air BP Aramco Poland sp. z o. o. Ordinary 50.00
ul. Grzybowska 2/29, 00-131, Warszawa, Poland
Lightsource Development Polska sp. z o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 1 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 10 sp. z o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 11 sp. z o.o. Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
320 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

LS 12 sp. z o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 2 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 3 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 4 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 5 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 6 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 7 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 8 sp. z o.o. Ordinary 49.97
LS 9 sp. z.o.o. Ordinary 49.97
RD PV Produkcja 5 Spółka Z Ograniczona Odpowiedzialnoscia Ordinary 49.97
Wena Projekt 2 sp. z o.o. Ordinary 49.97
Portugal
Grupo Operacional de Combustiveis do Aeroporto de Lisboa, Edificio 19, 1.º Sala Saba, Lisboa, Portugal
SABA- Sociedade Abastecedora de Aeronaves, Lda Ordinary 25.00
Lagoas Park, Edificio 3, Porto Salvo, Oeiras, Portugal
Charging Together, Unipessoal LDA Ordinary 50.00
Rua 31 de Agosto, nº 12, 5000 - 305 Vila Real, Portugal
LSBPDG - Sociedade de Produção De Energia, Limitada Ordinary 24.99
PTSunHydrogen II, LDA Ordinary 24.99
PTSunHydrogen III, LDA Ordinary 24.99
PTSunHydrogen IV, LDA Ordinary 24.99
PTSUNHYDROGEN V, LDA Ordinary 24.99
Rua Castilho, No 50, 1250-071, Lisboa, Portugal
Coherent Modernity Lda Ordinary 49.97
Coloursflow - Unipessoal Lda Ordinary 49.97
Forest Constellation - Unipessoal Lda Ordinary 49.97
Freshpanoply - Lda Ordinary 49.97
Ignichoice Renewable Energy V, Unipessoal LDA Ordinary 49.97
Ignidap – Energias Renováveis, Unipessoal Lda Ordinary 49.97
PTSunHydrogen VI, LDA Ordinary 24.99
PTSunHydrogen VII, LDA Ordinary 24.99
PTSunHydrogen, LDA Ordinary 24.99
Ramisun – Consultoria e Energias Renováveis, Unipessoal Lda. Ordinary 49.97
Solid Tomorrow - Energia Unipessoal Lda Ordinary 49.97
Suninger - Consultoria e Energias Renováveis, Unipessoal Lda Ordinary 49.97
Tolerantdiagonal - Lda Ordinary 49.97
Rua Júlio Dinis, n.º 247, 6.º, E-1, Edifício Mota Galiza, Parish of Lordelo do Ouro and Massarelos, Porto, 4050-324, Portugal
Dapsun - Investimentos e Consultoria, LDA. Ordinary 25.23
Rua Sousa Martins, nº 10, Lisboa 1050 218, Portugal
Lightsource Development Portugal, Unipessoal Lda Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Portugal (HoldCo), Lda. Ordinary 49.97
Romania
Bucureşti Sectorul 1, Bulevardul Dacia, Nr. 20, Biroul Nr. HDR20, Etaj 5, Romania
LIGHTSOURCE DEVELOPMENT ROMANIA S.R.L. Ordinary 49.97
Otopeni, 59 Aurel Vlaicu Street, Otopeni, Ilfov County, Romania
Romanian Fuelling Services S.R.L. Ordinary 50.00
Russian Federation
629830 Yamalo-Nenetskiy Anatomy Region, city of Gubkinskiy, Russian Federation
LLC "Kharampurneftegaz" Membership Interest 49.00
Kosmodamianskaya nab, 52/3, Moscow, 115035, Russian Federation
Limited Liability Company Yermak Neftegaz Membership Interest 49.00
Pervomayskaya street, 32A, Sakha (Yakutiya) Republic, Lensk, 678144, Russian Federation
Lensky Nefteprovod Limited Liability Company Membership Interest 20.00
Limited Liability Company TYNGD Membership Interest 20.00
Shabolovka street 10 building 2, 7th Floor, Room 13, Municipal District Yakimanka, Moscow, 119049, Russian Federation
Srednelenskoye Limited Liability Company Membership Interest 49.00
Saudi Arabia
Industrial Area Unit No 1, Yanbu Alsenayea, 46481 - 4659, Saudi Arabia
Arabian Production And Marketing Lubricants Company Ordinary 50.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 321

P O Box 6369, Jeddah 21442, Saudi Arabia
Peninsular Aviation Services Company LimitedeOrdinary 50.00
Singapore
12 Marina Boulevard, #35-01 MBFC Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore
BP Sinopec Marine Fuels Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 50.00
163 Penang Road, #08-01, Winsland House II, 238463, Singapore
Green Growth Feeder Fund Pte. Ltd Ordinary 24.99
8 Marina Boulevard, #05-02, Marina Bay Financial Centre, 018981, Singapore
Lightsource Singapore Renewables Holdings Private Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Singapore Renewables Private Limited Ordinary 49.97
8 Temasek Boulevard #31-02, Suntec City Tower 3, Singapore 038988, Singapore
China Aviation Oil (Singapore) Corporation Ltd Ordinary 20.17
South Africa
1 Refinery Road, Prospecton, 4110, South Africa
Shell and BP South African Petroleum Refineries (Pty) Ltd Ordinary A 37.49
135 Honshu Road, Islandview, Durban, 4052, South Africa
Blendcor (Pty) Limited Ordinary B 37.49
199 Oxford Road, Oxford Parks, Dunkeld, Johannesburg, GP, 2196, South Africa
Masana Petroleum Solutions (Pty) Ltd Ordinary 37.86
Spain
163, Paseo de la Castellana, planta baja, Madrid, 28046, Spain
Charging Together, S.L. Ordinary 50.00
Calle Alcala numero 63, Madrid, 28014, Spain
ISC Greenfield 12, S.L. Ordinary 49.97
Parque FV Borealis, S.L. Ordinary 49.97
Parque FV Polaris, S.L. Ordinary 49.97
Calle Américo Vespucio 5-1, planta 2, número 1, Isla de la Cartuja, 41092, Sevilla, Spain
Guillena 400 Promotores, S.L. Ordinary 12.27
Calle Jose Ortega y Gasset 22-24, 2nd Floor, 28006 Madrid, Spain
Global Cotolengo, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Calle José Ortega y Gasset, número 100, 5ª planta, 28006 de Madrid, Spain
Global Aljarafe, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Aroche, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Atarazana, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Baterno, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Baza, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Brenes, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Tarquinia, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Treviso, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Global Valdenoches, S.L.U Ordinary 49.97
Calle Lituania nº 10, Castellón de la Plana, Spain
Fundación para la Eficiencia Energética de la Comunidad Valenciana Membership Interest 33.33
Calle Ortega y Gasset, nº 100, planta quinta, Madrid, 28006, Spain
Alejandria Power, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.97
Caletona Servicios y Gestiones, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.97
Castellana Power, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.97
Inversiones Energy Madrid, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.97
ISC Greenfield 7, S.L. Ordinary 49.97
Khons Sun Power, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Europe Asset Management, SL Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Garnacha, S.L. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Spain Development, SL Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Spain Holdings, SL Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Spain SPV 1, SL Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Trading, SL Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Spain O&M, SL Ordinary 49.97
Rin Power, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.97
Sinfonia Solar Energy Power, S.L.U. Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
322 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Campus Empresarial Arbea - Edificio No 1, Carretera Fuencarral a Alcobendas (M-603), km 3.8, Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain
Hokchi Iberica, S.L. Ordinary 50.00
PAE Desarrollos Energeticos, S.L. Ordinary 50.00
PAE Energy Holding, S.L. Membership Interest 50.00
Pan American Energy Group, S.L. Ordinary B 50.00
Pan American Energy Iberica, S.L. Ordinary 50.00
Pan American Energy, S.L. Membership Interest 50.00
Carretera de San Andréss/n, La Jurada-María Jiménez, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spain
Terminales Canarios, S.L. Ordinary 50.00
Paseo de la Castellana 278, Madrid, Spain
Servicios Logísticos de Combustibles de Aviación, S.L Ordinary 50.00
Paseo De La Castellana 91 4º 4 Madrid, Spain
Gómez Narro Renovables 132 kV, A.I.E Membership Interest 22.72
Sweden
Box 135, 190 46 Arlanda, Sweden
A Flygbranslehantering AB (AFAB) Ordinary 25.00
Box 2154, Landvetter, 438 14, Sweden
Gothenburgh Fuelling Company AB (GFC) Ordinary 33.33
Box 22, SE 230 32 Malmö-Sturup, Sweden
Malmo Fuelling Services AB Ordinary 33.33
Box 7, 190 45 Arlanda, Sweden
Stockholm Fuelling Services Aktiebolag Ordinary 25.00
Switzerland
Lindenstrasse 2, 6340 Baar, Switzerland
Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG Ordinary 20.00
Route de Pré-Bois 17, Cointrin, 1216, Switzerland
Saraco SA Ordinary 20.00
Zwüscheteich, Rümlang, 8153, Switzerland
TAR - Tankanlage Ruemlang AG Ordinary 27.32
Taiwan (Province of China)
No. 97, 18F, Songren Rd., Xinyi Dist, Taipei City, 110050, Taiwan (Province of China)
Hui-Meng Energy Co., Ltd. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Development Taiwan Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy SPV 1 Taiwan Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy SPV 2 Taiwan Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy SPV 3 Taiwan Limited Ordinary 49.97
Thailand
23rd Fl. Rajanakarn Bldg, 3 South Sathon Road, Yannawa South Sathon, Bangkok 10120, Thailand
Pacroy (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Ordinary (100.00%); 
Preference (0.82%) 39.50
Trinidad and Tobago
Princes Court, Cor. Pembroke & Keate Street, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago
Atlantic LNG 2/3 Company of Trinidad and Tobago Unlimited Ordinary 42.50
Atlantic LNG Company of Trinidad and Tobago Ordinary 39.00
Türkiye
Degirmen yolu cad. No:28, Asia OfisPark K:3 Icerenkoy-Atasehir, Istanbul, 34752, Türkiye
ATAS Anadolu Tasfiyehanesi Anonim SirketifOrdinary 68.00
Kizilirmak Mahallesi, Ufuk Üniversitesi Caddesi, Farilya Business Center, No. 8, Çukurambar, Çankaya, Ankara, Türkiye
TANAP Dogalgaz Iletim Anonim Sirketi Ordinary C (100.00%) 12.00
Liman Mah. 60 Sk., Çekisan-Idari Bina sit. No:25 A/1, Konyaalti, Antalya, Türkiye
Cekisan Depolama Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi Ordinary 35.00
Yakuplu Mahallesi Genc, Osman Caddesi, No.7 Beylikdüzü, Istanbul, Türkiye
Ambarli Depolama Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi Ordinary 50.00
United Arab Emirates
8th Floor, Standard Chartered Tower, Downtown, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Middle East Lubricants Company LLC Ordinary 29.33
P O Box- 97, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates
Sharjah Aviation Services Co. LLC Ordinary B 49.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 323

P.O.Box 261781, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
EMDAD Aviation Fuel Storage FZCO Ordinary 33.33
Plot No. B003R04, Box No. 9400, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Emoil Storage Company FZCO Ordinary 20.00
Unit GD-GB-00-15-BC-26, Level 15, Gate District Gate Building, Dubai International Financial Center, 74777, United Arab 
Emirates
Basra Energy Company Limited Ordinary 49.00
United Kingdom
1 Wellheads Avenue, Dyce, Aberdeen, AB21 7PB, United Kingdom
bp Aberdeen Hydrogen Energy Limited Ordinary B 50.00
S&JD Robertson North Air Limited Ordinary 49.00
12, Old Broad Street, London, EC2N 1AR, England, United Kingdom
Azule Energy Holdings Limited Ordinary 50.00
1st Floor, 282 Earls Court Road, London, SW5 9AS, United Kingdom
Torro Ventures Ltd. Ordinary (18.70%); 
Preference Series B 
(39.09%) 24.00
29th Floor 40 Bank Street, London, E14 5NR, United Kingdom
Alyssum Group Limited Membership Interest 26.23
33 Cavendish Square, London, W1G 0PW, United Kingdom
Great Ropemaker Partnership (G.P.) Limited Ordinary B 50.00
Great Ropemaker Property (Nominee 1) Limited Ordinary 50.00
Great Ropemaker Property (Nominee 2) Limited Ordinary 50.00
Great Ropemaker Property Limited Ordinary 50.00
The Great Ropemaker Partnership Membership Interest 50.00
33 Holborn, 7th Floor, London, EC1N 2HU, England, United Kingdom
Lightsource Cosecha Limited Ordinary 49.97
5-7 Alexandra Road, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 5BS, England, United Kingdom
British Pipeline Agency Limited Ordinary 50.00
United Kingdom Oil Pipelines Limited Ordinary 22.00
Walton-Gatwick Pipeline Company Limited Ordinary 42.33
West London Pipeline and Storage Limited Ordinary 30.50
60 Sloane Avenue, London, SW3 3XB, United Kingdom
Fly Victor Ltd Membership Interest 26.23
6th Floor, 60 Gracechurch Street, London, EC3V 0HR, United Kingdom
Gasrec Ltd Ordinary A (39.50%) 36.67
713, Cavendish Avenue, Birchwood, Warrington, WA3 6DE, England, United Kingdom
BiSN Holdings Limited Preference Series B2 
(26.00%) 5.88
7th Floor, 33 Holborn, London, EC1N 2HU, England, United Kingdom
Burnthouse Solar Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 13 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 14 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 15 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 17 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 4 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 5 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 6 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Free Power for Schools 7 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Freetricity Central June Limited Ordinary 49.97
Goulburn River HoldCo 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (Australia) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (Europe) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (Spain) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (UK) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (USA) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (Vendimia I) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings (Vendimia II) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Holdings 2 Limited Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
324 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Lightsource Asset Holdings 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Asset Management Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Australia FinCo Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bodegas 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bodegas 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bodegas 4 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Bodegas Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource BP Renewable Energy Investments Limited Ordinary A (49.97%); 
Ordinary C (49.96%); 
Ordinary D (50.00%); 
Ordinary E (50.00%); 
Ordinary F (49.95%); 
Ordinary G (50.00%) 49.97
Lightsource Brazil Holdings 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Brazil Holdings 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Commercial Rooftops Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Construction Management Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Corinthian Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Development Services Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Egypt Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Elk Hill 2 Solar Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Elk Hill Solar 2 Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Finance 55 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Finca 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Finca 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Finca Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource France Holdings UK Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Grace 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Grace 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Grace 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Holdings 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Holdings 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Holdings 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Iberia Greenfield Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Iberia Project Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Impact 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Impact 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource India Holdings (Mauritius) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource India Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource India Investments (UK) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource India Limited Ordinary A 25.49
Lightsource India Maharashtra 1 Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource India Maharashtra 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Kingfisher Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Labs 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Largescale Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Manzanilla Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Operations 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Operations 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Operations 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Operations Services Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Poland Holdings (UK) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Property 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Property 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Property Investment Holdings Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Property Investment Management (LPIM) LLP LLP Designated Member 49.97
Lightsource Property Investments 1 Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy (India) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Asia Pacific Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Australia Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 325

Lightsource Renewable Energy Greece Holdings (UK) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Greece Holdings 2 (UK) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Greece Projects 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Iberia Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy India Assets Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy India Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy India Projects Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Italy Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Moristel Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Netherlands Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy New Zealand Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Poland Projects 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Poland Projects 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Portugal Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Portugal Projects 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Portugal Projects 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Tempranillo Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Verdejo Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Global Development Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Services Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Taiwan UK Holdings Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable UK Development Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Residential Rooftops (PPA) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Residential Rooftops Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 101 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 108 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 114 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 116 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 118 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 126 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 127 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 128 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 130 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 138 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 140 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 145 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 149 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 151 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 154 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 162 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 166 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 167 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 171 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 176 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 179 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 18 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 182 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 183 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 184 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 185 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 189 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 19 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 191 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 192 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 199 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 201 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 202 Limited Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
326 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Lightsource SPV 203 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 204 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 206 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 212 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 213 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 214 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 215 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 216 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 217 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 222 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 223 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 232 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 233 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 236 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 247 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 25 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 258 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 259 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 263 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 264 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 286 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 287 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 288 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 29 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 35 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 41 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 47 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 56 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 60 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 73 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 78 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 88 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 91 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 98 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Titan Borrower AUD Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Titan Borrower EUR Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Titan Borrower GBP Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Titan Borrower USD Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Titan Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Trading Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Trinidad Holdings (UK) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource UK Property Investments 1 LP Limited Partner 49.98
Lightsource Viking 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Viking 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Viking Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Xenium 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Xenium 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
LL Property Services 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
LL Property Services Limited Ordinary 49.97
Solar Photovoltaic (SPV2) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Solar Photovoltaic (SPV3) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Tiln Connections Ltd Ordinary 49.97
Tuwale Power Limited Ordinary 49.97
West Wyalong HoldCo 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga BESS HoldCo 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Woolooga HoldCo 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Your Power No. 1 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Your Power No. 10 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Your Power No. 19 Limited Ordinary 49.97Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 327

Your Power No. 2 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Your Power No. 3 Limited Ordinary 49.97
Your Power No. 8 Limited Ordinary 49.97
9 Caxton House, Broad Street, Great Cambourne, Cambridge, CB23 6JN, England, United Kingdom
Joint Inspection Group Limited Membership Interest 14.28
C/O ERNST & YOUNG LLP, The Paragon Counterslip, Bristol, BS1 6BX, United Kingdom
Green Biofuels Limited Ordinary 30.00
Calshot Way Central Area, Heathrow Airport, Hounslow, Middlesex, TW6 1PY, United Kingdom
Aviation Fuel Services Limited Ordinary 25.00
Chertsey Road, Sunbury on Thames, Middlesex, TW16 7BP, England, United Kingdom
Azule Energy Exploration (Angola) Limited Ordinary 50.00
Azule Energy Exploration Angola (KB) Limited Ordinary 50.00
Azule Energy Limited Ordinary 50.00
Mona Offshore Wind Holdings Limited Ordinary 50.00
Mona Offshore Wind Limited Ordinary 50.00
Morgan Offshore Wind Holdings Limited Ordinary 50.00
Morgan Offshore Wind Limited Ordinary 50.00
Morven Offshore Wind Holdings Limited Ordinary 50.00
Morven Offshore Wind Limited Ordinary 50.00
Eni House, 10 Ebury Bridge Road, London, SW1W 8PZ, England, United Kingdom
Solenova Limited Membership Interest 25.00
VIC CBM Limited Ordinary 50.00
Virginia Indonesia Co. CBM Limited Ordinary 50.00
Mclaren Building Suite, 14a Mclaren Building, 46 Priory Queensway, Birmingham, B4 7LR, United Kingdom
Grid Edge Limited Preferred Series A 
(60.00%); Preferred 
Series A 2 (58.68%) 25.16
Mw1 Building 557 Shoreham Road, Heathrow Airport, London, TW6 3RT, United Kingdom
Aviation Service (Iraq) Limited Ordinary B 40.00
Northgate House, 2nd Floor, Upper Borough Walls, Bath, BA1 1RG, England, United Kingdom
Blue Marble Holdings Limited Ordinary C (96.53%) 23.58
One Bartholomew Close, London, EC1A 7BL, United Kingdom
Manchester Airport Storage and Hydrant Company Limited Ordinary 25.00
Oxbotica Uhq 8050 Alec Issigonis Way, Oxford Business Park North, Oxford, Oxfordshire, OX4 2HW, England, United Kingdom
Oxa Autonomy Ltd Ordinary (1.10%); 
Preference Series B 
(17.79%); Preference 
Series C (22.37%) 11.26
Regus Business Centre, Cromac Square, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT2 8LA, United Kingdom
Lightsource Renewable Energy (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 266 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 267 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 268 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 269 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 270 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 271 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 272 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 273 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 274 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 275 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 276 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 277 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 278 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 279 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 280 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 281 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 282 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 283 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 284 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource SPV 285 (NI) Limited Ordinary 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
328 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Shell Centre, London, SE1 7NA, United Kingdom
Shell Mex and B.P. Limited Ordinary B 40.00
SM Realisations Limited (Liquidated) Membership Interest 40.00
The Consolidated Petroleum Company Limited Ordinary B 50.00
The Consolidated Petroleum Supply Company LimitedgOrdinary 50.00
Suite 44 (C/O Best4Business Accountants), Beaufort Court, Admirals Way, London, E14 9XL, United Kingdom
Pentland Aviation Fuelling Services Limited Ordinary A; Ordinary B 66.67
Sustainable Workspaces, County Hall, 5th Floor, The Riverside Building, Belvedere Road,London, SE1 7PB, England, United 
Kingdom
Powerverse Development Limited Ordinary 49.97
Powerverse Investments Limited Ordinary 49.97
Powerverse UK Limited Ordinary 49.97
Unit 9 Armstrong Mall, Southwood Business Park, Farnborough, GU14 0NR, England, United Kingdom
Blue Ocean Seismic Services Limited Preference Series A 
(51.28%) 31.25
Windsor House, Cornwall Road, Harrogate, England, HG1 2PW, United Kingdom
C-Capture Limited Preference Series A 
(23.17%) 19.30
United States
108 Lakeland Avenue, Dover, Kent, DE, 19901
Azule Energy Gas Supply Services Inc. Ordinary 50.00
15260 Pacific Palisade #204, Pacific Palisades, California, 90271, United States
Wastefuel Global, Inc. Series B1 (100.00%); 2.67
1560 Broadway, Suite 2090, Denver, Colorado, 80202, United States
Cedar Creek II, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, City of Dover, County of Kent, DE, 19901, United States
Zubie, Inc. Membership Interest 20.30
16192 Coastal Highway, Sussex County, Lewes, DE, 19958, United States
Aparecida I Power Holding LLC Membership Interest 25.00
2140 S. Dupont Highway, Camden, County of Kent, DE, 19934, United States
Beyond Limits, Inc. Preference Series B 
(100.00%); Preference 
Series C (20.07%) 50.54
251, Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE, 19808, United States
TAI 1 LLC Membership Interest 100.00
2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N Sacramento, CA, 95833-3505, United States
East Travel Plaza LLC Membership Interest 40.00
Petro Travel Plaza LLC Membership Interest 40.00
2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, DE, 19808, United States
Energy Emerging Investments, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
3410 Belle Chase Way, Suite 600, Lansing, MI, 48911, United States
Sunshine Gas Producers, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
3500 DuPont Highway, Dover, County of Kent, DE, 19901, United States
RepairPal, Inc. Preference Series A2 
(30.77%); Preference 
Series B (71.32%); 
Preference Series C 
(34.73%) 34.11
4001 Kennet Pike, Suite 302, Wilmington, DE, 19807, United States
AEP I HoldCo LLC Membership Interest 24.30
501 Westlake Park Blvd, Houston, TX 77079, United States
HPP SD Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 20.70
8 the Green, Ste A, Dover, Kent, DE, 19901, United States
Lutum Technology LLC Series A Common Units 20.00
815, 14th Street SW, Suite A100, Loveland, CO 80537, United States
Lightning eMotors, Inc. Ordinary 25.51
850 New Burton Road, Suite 201, Dover, Delaware, 19902, United States
SeaPort Midstream Partners, LLC Membership Interest 49.00
920 North King Street, 2nd Floor, Wilmington DE 19801, United States
Atlantic 1 Holdings LLC Membership Interest 39.00
Atlantic 2/3 Holdings LLC Membership Interest 42.50Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 329

9900 Spectrum Drive, Austin, TX 78717, United States
Austin Elements Inc. Ordinary 30.00
c/o Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808, United States
Apis Innovation Inc. Ordinary 37.43
Astro Solar Construction Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Astro Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Astro Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Astro Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Astro Solar Manager, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Astro Solar Transfer Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Atlas RNG LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Bass Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bass Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bass Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bass Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bass Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Beacon Wind Holdings LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Beacon Wind LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Bellflower Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Big Elk Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bighorn Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bighorn Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bighorn Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bighorn Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bighorn Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Bighorn Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Birch Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Black Bear Alabama Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 25.73
Black Bear Alabama Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Black Bear Alabama Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Black Bear Alabama Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 25.73
Black Bear Alabama Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Black Bear Alabama Solar Manager, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Briar Creek Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Canal Road Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cardinal Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cardinal Solar Construction Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cardinal Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cardinal Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cardinal Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cardinal Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Champion Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Chester Solar Energy, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Concord Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Concord Solar Construction Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Concord Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Concord Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Concord Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Concord Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Continental Divide Solar I, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Continental Divide Solar II, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Continental Divide Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 3, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 4, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 5, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 6, LLC Membership Interest 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
330 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Cottontail Solar 7, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 8, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar 9, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar Construction Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Cottontail Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Crawfish Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crawfish Solar Construction Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crawfish Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crawfish Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crawfish Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crawfish Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Crawford Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crossvine Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Crossvine Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Driver Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Driver Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Eden RNG LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Elk Hill Solar 1 Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Elk Hill Solar 1 Storage, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Elk Hill Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Elk Hill Solar 2 Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Elk Hill Solar 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Elm Branch Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Empire Offshore Wind Holdings LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Empire Offshore Wind LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Endurance Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Endurance Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Endurance Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Endurance Solar Investor 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Endurance Solar Investor 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Endurance Solar Manager, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Endurance Solar Transfer Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Falcon Lake Storage, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
FreeWire Technologies, Inc. Membership Interest 22.90
Glade CD Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Construction Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Glade Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Granite Hill Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Granite Hill Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Green Meadows Operations LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Green Meadows RNG LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Happy Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Honeysuckle Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Impact Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Impact Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Impact Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Impact Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Impact Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 331

Impact Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Inverness Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Janus RNG LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Johnson Corner Solar I, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Jones City Solar II, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Jones City Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Kirkham Solar Farms I, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Kirkham Solar Farms II, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Beacon 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Beacon 3, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Beacon Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Beacon, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Osprey Holdings A, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Osprey Holdings B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Asset Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Asset Management Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Asset Management, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Assets Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Austin Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Development, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Management, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Operations, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Services Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Services, Inc. Ordinary 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy Trading, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Lightsource Renewable Energy US, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
LSBP NE Development, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Maverick Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Maverick Solar Construction, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Maverick Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Maverick Solar Holdings 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Maverick Solar Holdings, LLC Class B Membership 
Interest 49.97
Mayapple Solar Holdings 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Mayapple Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Mayapple Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Merrillville Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Merrillville Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Merrillville Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Mound Creek Storage, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Mountain Daisy Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Mountain Holly Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Mowata Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Nikola-TA HRS 1, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Osprey Solar Holdings A, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Osprey Solar Holdings B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Oxbow Solar Farm 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Oxbow Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Pan RNG LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Paper Shell Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Peony Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Petro Travel Plaza Holdings LLC Membership Interest 40.00
Pikes Peak Energy Storage Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Pikes Peak Energy Storage, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Pine Burr Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Pine Cone Solar 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Pine Cone Solar 3, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Pine Cone Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Poplar Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.9714. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
332 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Prairie Ronde Solar Class B, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Prairie Ronde Solar Farm, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Prairie Ronde Solar Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Renewable Energy Shared Assets LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Roscoe Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Saturn Renewables LLC Partnership interest 50.00
Shorebird Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Snowdrop Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Starr Solar Ranch 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Starr Solar Ranch LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Sun Mountain Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Sycamore Trail Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Sycamore Trail Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Titan Partners LLC Membership Interest 25.00
Trinity River Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
TX Gulf Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
White Trillium Solar, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Whitetail Solar 1, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Whitetail Solar 2, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Whitetail Solar 3, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Whitetail Solar 6, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Whitetail Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Wildflower Solar I, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Wildflower Solar Land Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 49.97
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE, 19801, United States
Advanced Ionics, Inc. Series A-1 (40.90%) 15.53
Ash Grove Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Auwahi Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Auwahi Wind Energy LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Caesar Oil Pipeline Company, LLC Membership Interest 56.00
Calysta, Inc. Preference Series D-1 36.36
CE BP Renew Co, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
CE bp Renew Dynamic Co I, LLC Membership Interest 40.00
CE bp Renew Dynamic Co II, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
CE bp Renew Dynamic Co III, LLC Membership Interest 40.00
Cedar Creek II Holdings LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Chicap Pipe Line Company Ordinary 28.65
Cleopatra Gas Gathering Company, LLC Membership Interest 53.00
Drumgoon Digester Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 40.00
East Valley Development, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Endymion Oil Pipeline Company, LLC Membership Interest 65.00
Fowler II Holdings LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Fowler Ridge II Wind Farm LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Goshen Phase II LLC Membership Interest 50.00
KM Phoenix Holdings LLC Membership Interest 25.00
Mars Oil Pipeline Company LLC Partnership interest 28.50
Marshall Ridge Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 40.00
Mehoopany Wind Energy LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Mehoopany Wind Holdings LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Midwest Alliance For Clean Hydrogen, LLC Membership Interest 26.20
Olympic Pipe Line Company LLC Membership Interest 35.70
PartsTech, Inc. Preference Series A 
(65.15%); Preference 
Series B (17.84%) 40.13
Proteus Oil Pipeline Company, LLC Membership Interest 65.00
Tri-Cross Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
Ursa Major Marine Holdings, LLC Membership Interest 33.33
Ursa Oil Pipeline Company LLC Membership Interest 22.69
Van Winkle Digester Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 50.00
VF Renewable Energy, LLC Membership Interest 40.00Financial statements
14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 333

Uruguay
Avenida Luis Alberto de Herrera 1248, Oficina 1901, Montevideo, Uruguay
Axuy Energy Holdings S.R.L. Membership Interest 50.00
Axuy Energy Investments S.R.L. Membership Interest 50.00
Colonia 810, Oficina 403, Montevideo, Uruguay
Baplor S.A. Ordinary 50.00
FERMULY S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Gemalsur S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Pan American Energy Holdings S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Pan American Energy Uruguay S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Dr. Luis Bonavita 1294, Oficina 2302, Montevideo, Uruguay
BP Bunge Montevideo S.A. Ordinary 50.00
La Cumparsita 1373, piso 4°, Montevideo, Uruguay
Dinarel S.A. Ordinary 20.00
Luis A de Herrera 1248, Torre II, Piso 22 (Edificio World Trade Center), Montevideo, Uruguay
Axion Comercializacion De Combustibles Y Lubricantes S.A. Ordinary 50.00
Zimbabwe
Block 1 Tendeseka Office Park, Samora Machel Av/Renfrew Road, Harare, Zimbabwe
Central African Petroleum Refineries (Pvt) Ltd Membership Interest 20.75
a1% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.   
b0.01% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.
c99% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.
d100% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.
e50% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.
f15% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.
g5% interest held directly by BP p.l.c.14. Related undertakings of the group – continued
The parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. on pages 275-334  do not form part of bp’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC. 
334 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Additional disclosures
Additional information 336
Liquidity and capital resources 340
Oil and gas disclosures for the group 342
Additional information for customers & products 351
Environmental expenditure 353
Regulation of the group’s business 353
International trade sanctions 357
Material contracts 358
Property, plant and equipment 358
Related party transactions 358
Corporate governance practices 358
Code of ethics 359
Controls and procedures 359
Cyber security 360
Principal accountant’s fees and services 360
Additional Directors’ report disclosures 361
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R 361
Cautionary statement 361Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 335

Additional information
Capital expenditure «
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Capital expenditure
Organic capital expenditure «  14,998  12,470  11,779 
Inorganic capital expenditureabc«  1,255  3,860  1,069 
 16,253  16,330  12,848 
Capital expenditure by segment
gas & low carbon energyc 4,281  4,251  4,741 
oil production & operations  6,278  5,278  4,838 
customers & productsab 5,253  6,252  2,872 
other businesses & corporate  441  549  397 
 16,253  16,330  12,848 
Capital expenditure by geographical area
US  8,105  8,656  4,858 
Non-US  8,148  7,674  7,990 
 16,253  16,330  12,848 
a2023 includes  $1.1 billion  in respect of the TravelCenters of America acquisition.
b2022 includes $3,030 million in respect of the Archaea Energy acquisition.
c2021 includes the final payment of $712 million in respect of the strategic partnership with Equinor.
336 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Adjusting  items
Adjusting items are items that bp discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be meaningful and relevant to investors. They are items 
that management considers to be important to period-on-period analysis of the group's results and are disclosed in order to enable investors to better 
understand and evaluate the group’s reported financial performance. An analysis of adjusting items is shown in the table below.
$ million
2023 2022 2021
gas & low carbon energy
Gain on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa 19  45  1,034 
Net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa (2,221)  588  1,503 
Environmental and other provisions  —  —  — 
Restructuring, integration and rationalization costsb —  8  (33) 
Fair value accounting effectscd«  8,859  (1,811)  (7,662) 
Othere (1,299)  (197)  (237) 
 5,358  (1,367)  (5,395) 
oil production & operations
Gain on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa 297  3,446  869 
Net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa (1,819)  (4,508)  776 
Environmental and other provisionsf 54  518  (1,144) 
Restructuring, integration and rationalization costsb (1)  (11)  (92) 
Fair value accounting effects  —  —  — 
Otherg (121)  52  (200) 
 (1,590)  (503)  209 
customers & products
Gain on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa 44  374  (52) 
Net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa (1,757)  (1,983)  (1,097) 
Environmental and other provisions  (97)  (101)  (111) 
Restructuring, integration and rationalization costsb —  18  (11) 
Fair value accounting effectsd (86)  (309)  436 
Otherh (287)  81  (209) 
 (2,183)  (1,920)  (1,044) 
other businesses & corporate
Gain on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa 1  1  — 
Net impairment and losses on sale of businesses and fixed assetsa  (41)  (17)  (59) 
Environmental and other provisionsi (604)  (92)  (281) 
Restructuring, integration and rationalization costsb 38  19  (113) 
Fair value accounting effectsd 630  (1,381)  (849) 
Rosneftj —  (24,033)  (291) 
Gulf of Mexico oil spill  (57)  (84)  (70) 
Other  (4)  21  (22) 
(37) (25,566) (1,685)
Total before interest and taxation  1,548  (29,356)  (7,915) 
Finance costsk (405)  (425)  (782) 
Total before taxation  1,143  (29,781)  (8,697) 
Taxation on adjusting itemsl  972  456  621 
Taxation - tax rate change effect of UK energy profits levym 232  (1,834)  — 
Total after taxationn 2,347  (31,159)  (8,076) 
aSee Financial statements – Note 4  for further information.
bRestructuring charges are classified as adjusting items where they relate to an announced major group restructuring. A major group restructuring is a restructuring programme affecting more than one of 
the group’s operating segments that is expected to result in charges of more than $1 billion over a defined period. 2022 includes release of provisions for the reinvent bp restructuring costs. 2021 includes 
recognized provisions for the reinvent bp restructuring costs that were formalized in 2020. 
cUnder IFRS bp marks-to-market the value of the hedges used to risk-manage LNG contracts, but not the contracts themselves, resulting in a mismatch in accounting treatment. The fair value accounting 
effect includes the change in value of LNG contracts that are being risk managed, and the underlying result reflects how bp risk-manages its LNG contracts.
dFor further information, including the nature of fair value accounting effects reported in each segment, see page 377 .
e2023 includes $1,140 million of impairment charges recognized through equity-accounted earnings relating to our US offshore wind projects.
f2022 includes a provision reversal relating to the change in discount rate on retained decommissioning provisions. 2021 includes adjustments relating to the change in discount rate on retained 
decommissioning provisions and the recognition of a decommissioning provision in relation to certain assets previously sold to a third party where the decommissioning obligation transferred may revert 
to bp due to the financial condition of the current owner.
g2021 includes a $415 million charge relating to a remeasurement of deferred tax balances in our equity-accounted entity in Argentina following income tax rate changes partially offset by impairment 
reversals in equity-accounted entities.
h2021 includes amounts arising in relation to the amendment of the timing of recognition of certain customer incentives in our customers business.
i2023 primarily relates to charges related to the control, abatement, clean-up or elimination of environmental pollution and legal settlements. 2022 and 2021 primarily reflect charges due to the annual 
update of environmental provisions, including asbestos-related provisions for past operations, together with updates of non-Gulf of Mexico oil spill related legal provisions. 
jFor more information see Financial statements – Note 1  Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions – Investment in Rosneft and Note 17  – Investments in associates.
kIncludes the unwinding of discounting effects relating to Gulf of Mexico oil spill payables, the income statement impact associated with the buyback of finance debt (see Financial statements – Note 26  
for further information) and temporary valuation differences associated with the group's interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk management of finance debt.
lIncludes c ertain foreign exchange effects on tax as adjusting items. These amounts represent the impact of: (i) foreign exchange on deferred tax balances arising from the conversion of local currency tax 
base amounts into functional currency; and (ii) taxable gains and losses from the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intra-group loans to local currency.
m2023 includes a revision to the deferred tax impact of the introduction of the UK Energy Profits Levy (EPL) on temporary differences existing at 31 December 2022 that are expected to unwind over the 
period 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2028. 2022 includes the deferred tax impact of the introduction of the EPL. The EPL increases the headline rate of tax to 75% and applies to taxable profits from bp’s 
North Sea business made from 1 January 2023 until 31 March 2028. On 6 March 2024 the UK government announced an extension of the EPL to 31 March 2029. This has not yet been substantively 
enacted.
n2023 and 2022 include a $146-million charge and a $505-million charge respectively for the EU Solidarity Contribution.Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 337

Non-IFRS information on fair value accounting effects
The impacts of fair value accounting effects, relative to management’s internal measure of performance, are set out below. Further information on fair 
value accounting effects is provided on page 377 .
$ million
2023 2022 2021
gas & low carbon energy
Unrecognized (gains) losses brought forward from previous period  (9,960)  (8,149)  (485) 
Favourable (adverse) impact relative to management’s measure of performance  8,859  (1,811)  (7,662) 
Exchange translation gains (losses) on fair value accounting effects  (24)  —  (2) 
Unrecognized (gains) losses carried forward  (1,125)  (9,960)  (8,149) 
customers & products
Unrecognized (gains) losses brought forward from previous period  79  391  (45) 
Favourable (adverse) impact relative to management’s measure of performance  (86)  (309)  436 
Exchange translation gains (losses) on fair value accounting effects  (10)  (3)  — 
Unrecognized (gains) losses carried forward  (17)  79  391 
other businesses & corporate
Unrecognized (gains) losses brought forward from previous period  (1,555)  (174)  675 
Favourable (adverse) impact relative to management’s measure of performancea 630  (1,381)  (849) 
Unrecognized (gains) losses carried forward  (925)  (1,555)  (174) 
Group
Unrecognized (gains) losses brought forward from previous period  (11,436)  (7,932)  145 
Favourable (adverse) impact relative to management’s measure of performance  9,403  (3,501)  (8,075) 
Exchange translation gains (losses) on fair value accounting effects  (34)  (3)  (2) 
Unrecognized (gains) losses carried forward  (2,067)  (11,436)  (7,932) 
Favourable (adverse) impact relative to management’s measure of performance – by region
gas & low carbon energy
US  900  (1,140)  (92) 
Non-US  7,959  (671)  (7,570) 
 8,859  (1,811)  (7,662) 
customers & products
US  (18)  3  105 
Non-US  (68)  (312)  331 
 (86)  (309)  436 
other businesses & corporate
US  —  —  — 
Non-US  630  (1,381)  (849) 
 630  (1,381)  (849) 
 9,403  (3,501)  (8,075) 
Taxation credit (charge)  (915)  434  862 
 8,488  (3,067)  (7,213) 
a  Includes changes in the fair value of derivatives entered into by the group to manage currency exposure and interest rate risks relating to hybrid bonds to their respective first call periods. For further 
information see page 377 .
338 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Net debt including leases
Net debt including leases « is shown in the table below.
$ million
At 31 December 2023 2022
Net debta«  20,912  21,422 
Lease liabilities  11,121  8,549 
Net partner (receivable) payable for leases entered into on behalf of joint operations «  (131)  19 
Net debt including leases  31,902  29,990 
Total equity  85,493  82,990 
Gearing including leases «  27.2 % 26.5%
a  See Financial statements – Note 27 for a reconciliation of net debt to finance debt, which is the nearest equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis.
Surplus cash flow « components
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Sources:
Net cash provided by operating activities  32,039  40,932  23,612 
Cash provided from investing activities  1,381  2,617  7,154 
Othera 324  360  589 
 33,744  43,909  31,355 
Uses:
Lease liability payments  (2,560)  (1,961)  (2,082) 
Payments on perpetual hybrid bonds  (1,008)  (708)  (538) 
Dividends paid – bp shareholders  (4,809)  (4,358)  (4,304) 
                           – non-controlling interests  (403)  (294)  (311) 
Total capital expenditure «  (16,253)  (16,330)  (12,848) 
Net repurchase of shares relating to employee share schemes  (675)  (500)  (500) 
Payments relating to transactions involving non-controlling interests  (187)  (9)  (560) 
Currency translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents  27  (684)  (269) 
 (25,868)  (24,844)  (21,412) 
a  Other includes adjustments for net operating cash received or paid which is held on behalf of third parties for medium-term deferred payment and prior periods have been adjusted accordingly. 2023 
includes $517 million of proceeds from the sale of a 49% interest in a controlled affiliate holding certain midstream assets onshore US. Other proceeds for 2022 include $573 million of proceeds from the 
disposal of a loan note related to the Alaska divestment. The cash was received in the fourth quarter 2021, was reported as a financing cash flow and was not included in other proceeds at the time due to 
potential recourse from the counterparty. The proceeds were recognized as the potential recourse reduces and by end second quarter 2022 all were recognized.Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 339

Liquidity and capital resources
Financial framework
bp has a resilient financial framework that, taken together with our strategy, 
creates a compelling investor proposition offering committed distributions, 
profitable growth and sustainable value. The framework comprises a 
coherent approach to capital allocation, a resilient balance sheet, a 
disciplined approach to investment allocation and a relentless focus on 
executing bp’s business plan.
bp’s approach to capital allocation leads to a clear set of priorities – 
funding our resilient dividend as the first priority, maintaining a strong 
investment grade credit rating, disciplined investment in our transition 
growth« engines to advance our energy transition strategy and investment 
in oil, gas, refining and other businesses, and then returning surplus cash 
flow« as share buybacks. In a period of low prices, the group has the 
flexibility to reduce cash costs and to reduce or defer capital investment, as 
appropriate.
Our shareholder distribution policy reflects these priorities for the uses of 
cash alongside an ongoing consideration of factors, including changes in 
the environment, the underlying performance of the business, the outlook 
for the group financial framework, and other market factors which may vary 
quarter to quarter. 
Net debt« at 31 December 2023  was $20.9 billion  and is expected to 
reduce in line with the growth in operating cash flow «. As at 31 December 
2023  our target of $25 billion of divestment and other proceeds between 
the second half of 2020 and 2025 was underpinned by agreed or completed 
transactions of around $18.5 billion with $17.8 billion of proceeds received.
We expect operating cash flow to cover capital expenditure « and the 
dividend. Capital expenditure in 2023  was $16.3 billion , including $1.3 billion 
of inorganic capital expenditure «. bp expects capital expenditure of around 
$16 billion through 2024 and 2025 and expects a range of $14-18 billion per 
annum through 2030 including inorganic expenditure. bp's cash balancing 
point is expected to average around $40 per barrel Brent (assuming an 
average refining marker margin of around $11 per barrel and Henry Hub 
gas price at $3 per mmBtu) in 2021 real terms. 
In 2023 , the return on average capital employed « was 18.1%a at an 
average of $83 per barrel. The return on average capital employed is 
targeted to be over 18% by 2025 at $70 per barrel in 2021 real terms, and 
assuming bp planning assumptions, as we continue to execute our 
strategy. This is supported by an expected growth on adjusted EBIDA per 
share compound annual growth rate « from the second half 2019/first half 
2020b to 2025 and subject to the same price and planning assumptions.
aNearest equivalent IFRS measures of numerator and denominator are profit for the year 
attributable to bp shareholders and total equity respectively: Profit for the year attributable to bp 
shareholders divided by total equity at the end of 2023 17.8%.
bAdjusted to exclude Rosneft.
Dividends and other distributions to shareholders
The dividend is determined in US dollars, the economic currency of bp, and 
the dividend level is reviewed by the board each quarter. The quarterly 
dividend was increased from 6.610 to 7.270 cents per ordinary share per 
quarter in the second quarter of 2023 . 
The total dividend distributed to bp shareholders in 2023  was $4.8 billion  
(2022  $4.4 billion ). This dividend was all paid in cash as shareholders no 
longer have the option to receive a scrip dividend in place of receiving cash.
Included in the distribution policy is a commitment that, subject to 
maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating, at least 80% of surplus 
cash flow on a point forward basis will be distributed to shareholders 
through share buybacks. In 2023  bp executed $7.9 billion  of share 
buybacks ( 2022  $10.0 billion), including fees and stamp duty. Since 1 
January 2024  an additional $0.9 billion  shares have been repurchased up to 
16 February 2024 , including fees and stamp duty. Based on bp’s current 
forecasts, at around $60 per barrel Brent and subject to the board’s 
discretion each quarter, bp expects to  have capacity for an annual increase 
in the dividend per ordinary share of around 4%. Based on current market 
conditions bp plans share buybacks of at least $14 billion through 2025 . In 
setting the dividend and share buybacks each quarter, the board will 
continue to take into account factors including the cumulative level of and outlook for surplus cash flow, the cash balance point « and the 
maintenance of a strong investment grade credit rating.
Financing the group’s activities
The group’s principal commodities, oil and gas, are priced internationally in 
US dollars. Group policy has generally been to minimize economic 
exposure to currency movements by financing operations with US dollar 
debt. Where debt and hybrid bonds are issued in other currencies, they are 
generally swapped back to US dollars using derivative contracts, or else 
hedged by maintaining offsetting cash positions in the same currency. 
Cash balances of the group are mainly held in US dollars or swapped to US 
dollars and holdings are well diversified to reduce concentration risk. The 
group is not, therefore, exposed to significant currency risk regarding its 
cash or borrowings. Also see Risk factors on page 77  for further 
information on risks associated with prices and markets and Financial 
statements – Note 29 . 
The group’s finance debt at 31 December 2023  amounted to $52.0  billion 
(2022  $46.9  billion). Of the total finance debt, $3.3  billion is classified as 
short term at the end of 2023  (2022  $3.2  billion). See Financial statements 
– Note 26  for more information on the short-term balance. Net debt « was 
$20.9 billion  at the end of 2023 , a decrease of  $0.5 billion  from the 2022  
year-end position of $21.4 billion . BP p.l.c. fully and unconditionally 
guarantees securities issued by BP Capital Markets p.l.c.  and BP Capital 
Markets America Inc. which are 100%-owned finance subsidiaries of BP 
p.l.c.
At 31 December 2023 the group held a balance of $13.6 billion (2022 $13.4 
billion) issued perpetual subordinated hybrid bonds, of which $1.5 billion 
(2022 $1.3 billion) were issued to fund one of the group's major projects. As 
the group has the unconditional right to avoid transfer of cash or another 
financial asset in relation to these hybrid bonds, which were issued by 
group subsidiaries, they are classified as equity instruments and reported 
within non-controlling interest.
The ratio of finance debt to finance debt plus total equity at 31 December 
2023  was 37.8%  (2022  36.1% ). Gearing was 19.7%  at the end of 2023  (2022  
20.5% ). See Financial statements – Note 27  for finance debt, which is the 
nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis, and for further information 
on net debt.
Cash and cash equivalents of $33.0  billion at 31 December 2023  (2022  
$29.2  billion) are included in net debt. We manage our cash position so that 
the group has adequate cover to respond to potential short-term market 
liquidity, short-term price environment volatility and expect to maintain a 
robust cash position.
The group also has an undrawn committed $8 billion credit facility and 
undrawn committed bank facilities of $4 billion (see Financial statements – 
Note 29  for more information). 
We believe that the group's resilient balance sheet and strong investment 
grade credit rating will allow the group to meet its known contractual and 
other obligations in both the short and long term with the group having 
sufficient working capital, taking into account the amounts of undrawn 
borrowings facilities, access to capital markets, levels of cash and cash 
equivalents and its ongoing ability to generate cash through operations. 
This belief is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to 
increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes 
cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
bp utilizes various arrangements in order to manage its working capital 
including discounting of receivables and, in the supply and trading business, 
the active management of supplier payment terms, inventory and collateral.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings’ long-term credit rating for BP p.l.c. is A- 
(positive), the Moody’s Investors Service rating is A2 (positive) and the Fitch 
Ratings’ long-term credit rating is A+ (stable).
The group’s sources of funding, its access to capital markets and 
maintaining a strong cash position are described in Financial statements – 
Note 25  and Note 29 . Further information on the management of liquidity 
risk and credit risk, and the maturity profile and fixed/floating rate 
characteristics of the group’s debt are also provided in Financial 
statements – Note 26  and Note 29 . 
The information above contains forward-looking statements, which by their nature 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of bp. 
340 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

You are urged to read the Cautionary statement on page 361  and Risk factors on 
page 77 , which describe the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results 
and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
At 31 December 2023 , the group’s share of third-party finance debt of 
equity-accounted entities was $9.9 billion  (2022  $8.8 billion ). These 
amounts are not reflected in the group’s debt on the balance sheet. The 
group has issued third-party guarantees under which amounts outstanding, 
incremental to amounts recognized on the balance sheet, at 31 December 
2023  were $1,655 million  (2022  $1,704 million ) in respect of liabilities of 
joint ventures « and associates « and $598 million  (2022  $680 million ) in 
respect of liabilities of other third parties. Of these amounts, $1,609 million  
(2022  $1,701 million ) of the joint ventures and associates guarantees relate 
to borrowings and, for other third-party guarantees, $527 million  (2022  
$557 million ) relate to guarantees of borrowings. 
Contractual obligations
The following table summarizes the group’s capital expenditure 
commitments for property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2023  and 
the proportion of that expenditure for which contracts have been placed.
$ million
Payments due by period
Capital expenditureLess than 1 
yearMore than 1 
year Total
Committed  12,890  9,648  22,538 
of which is contracted  6,962  3,392  10,354 
Capital expenditure is considered to be committed when the project has 
received the appropriate level of internal management approval. For joint 
operations «, the net bp share is included in the amounts above.
In addition, at 31 December 2023 , the group had committed to capital 
expenditure relating to investments in equity-accounted entities amounting 
to $3,120 million . Contracts were in place for $1,685  million of this total.
The following table summarizes the group’s principal contractual 
obligations at 31 December 2023 , distinguishing between those for which a 
liability is recognized on the balance sheet and those for which no liability is 
recognized. See Financial framework above for bp’s approach to capital 
allocation and Financing the group’s activities above for bp’s plan and 
ability to generate and obtain cash in the short and long term. Also see 
Financial statements – Note 23  for more information on provisions, Note 
24 on pensions and other post-retirement benefits, Note 26  on borrowings, 
Note 28  on leases, Note 29  and Note 30  on derivatives and financial 
instruments.$ million
Payments due by period
Expected payments by period under 
contractual obligationsLess than 1 
yearMore than 1 
year Total
Balance sheet obligations
Borrowingsa 5,448  66,161  71,609 
Lease liabilitiesb 3,038  10,042  13,080 
Decommissioning liabilitiesc 674  23,332  24,006 
Environmental liabilitiesc 352  1,626  1,978 
Gulf of Mexico oil spill 
liabilitiesd 1,142  9,520  10,662 
Pensions and other post-
retirement benefitse 577  12,686  13,263 
 11,231  123,367  134,598 
Off-balance sheet obligations
Unconditional purchase 
obligationsf
Crude oil and oil products  49,754  8,953  58,707 
Natural gas and LNG  13,394  52,974  66,368 
Chemicals and other refinery 
feedstocks  540  78  618 
Power  5,075  13,514  18,589 
Utilities  58  417  475 
Transportation  2,153  14,764  16,917 
Use of facilities and services  2,816  20,894  23,710 
 73,790  111,594  185,384 
Total  85,021  234,961  319,982 
aExpected payments include interest totalling $ 21,298  million (less than 1 year $2,394 million, 
more than 1 year $18,904 million).
bExpected payments include interest totalling $ 1,961  million (less than 1 year $380 million, more 
than 1 year $1,581 million).
cThe amounts presented are undiscounted.
dThe amounts presented are undiscounted. Gulf of Mexico oil spill liabilities are included in the 
group balance sheet, on a discounted basis, within other payables. See Financial statements – 
Note 22  for further information.
eRepresents the expected future contributions to funded pension plans and payments by the group 
for unfunded pension plans and the expected future payments for other post-retirement benefits.
fRepresents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding 
and that specifies all significant terms (such as fixed or minimum purchase volumes, timing of 
purchase and pricing provisions). Agreements that do not specify all significant terms, or that are 
not enforceable, are excluded. The amounts shown include arrangements to secure long-term 
access to supplies of crude oil, natural gas, feedstocks and pipeline systems. In addition, the 
amounts shown for 2024  include purchase commitments existing at 31 December 2023  entered 
into principally to meet the group’s short-term manufacturing and marketing requirements. The 
price risk associated with these crude oil, natural gas and power contracts is discussed in 
Financial statements – Note 29 .
Commitments for the delivery of oil and gas
We sell crude oil, natural gas and liquefied natural gas under a variety of 
contractual obligations. Some of these contracts specify the delivery of 
fixed and determinable quantities. For the period from 2024 to 2026 
worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately 291 
million barrels of oil, 7,586 billion cubic feet of natural gas, and 73 million 
tonnes of liquefied natural gas. The commitments principally relate to 
group subsidiaries « based in  Egypt,  Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago, the 
UK and the US. We expect to fulfil these delivery commitments with 
production from our proved developed reserves and supplies from existing 
contracts, supplemented by market purchases as necessary.Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 341

Oil and gas disclosures for the group
Analysis by region
Our oil and gas operations are set out below by geographical area, with 
associated significant events for 2023 . bp’s percentage working interest in 
oil and gas assets is shown in brackets. Working interest is the cost-bearing 
ownership share of an oil or gas lease. Consequently, the percentages 
disclosed for certain agreements do not necessarily reflect the percentage 
interests in proved reserves, production or revenue. 
In addition to exploration, development and production activities, our oil 
production & operations (OP&O) and gas businesses also include certain 
midstream and liquefied natural gas (LNG) supply activities. Midstream 
activities involve the management of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, 
processing facilities and export terminals, LNG processing facilities and 
transportation, and our natural gas liquids (NGLs) processing business.
Our upstream LNG activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, 
Indonesia, and Trinidad. In 2023 our production was 8.5 million tonnes of 
LNG from these assets, of which 2 million tonnes were marketed through 
trading and shipping (T&S), which supplements equity production with 
merchant third party volumes leading to a global long-term strategic LNG 
portfolio of 23mtpa. In addition to the long-term equity and merchant 
supply portfolio, bp has delivered 10mtpa in 2023 of incremental merchant 
volumes  through short and mid-term cargos managed through the T&S 
LNG business. These supplement the long-term portfolio and allow 
generation of short-term value when opportunities exist.
The LNG is marketed through contractual rights to access import terminal 
capacity into the liquid gas markets of Europe, and the UK, and 
relationships to market directly to end-user customers or trading entities. 
LNG is supplied to all major LNG demand centres, for example Argentina, 
Brazil, the Caribbean, China, Croatia, Mediterranean, Iberia and North West 
Europe, India, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Türkiye and 
the UK.
Europe
bp is active in offshore oil and gas in the UK and Norway. In 2023 bp’s UK 
production came from two key areas: the Shetland area comprising the 
Clair and Schiehallion fields; and the central area comprising the Andrew 
area, Culzean, Vorlich and ETAP fields. In Norway, production was through 
our equity-accounted 15.9% interest in Aker BP.
•On 28 June the Norwegian Ministry of Petroleum and Energy approved a 
total of nine plans for development and operation to Aker BP (bp 15.9%), 
with estimated recoverable reserves to be above 700 million barrels of 
oil equivalent (mmboe). As per the public announcement the Norwegian 
government’s approval of two of the developments remain subject to 
legal challenge in Norway.
•In September bp and its co-venturers in the Clair joint venture made the 
final investment decision to proceed with the construction and operation 
of the Shetland Crossover Pipeline, reinforcing the gas export network 
and supporting UK security of supply (bp 45% operator).
•In October the first of two wells for the Murlach oil and gas field in the 
UK North Sea were spudded, following regulatory approval of the field 
development plan in September (bp 80% operator).
•In October bp successfully started production from the Seagull oil and 
gas field in the UK North Sea. This is the first tieback to the ETAP hub in 
20 years. The new field is expected to produce around 50 thousand 
barrels of oil equivalent (mboe) gross per day at peak production.
•During the year an impairment charge of $0.9 billion was recogni zed in 
respect of certain assets in the North Sea as a result of changes to the 
group's oil and gas price and discount rate assumptions and activity 
phasing.
North America
Our oil and gas activities in North America are located in four areas: 
deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Lower 48 states, Canada and Mexico. 
bp has around 280 lease blocks in the Gulf of Mexico and operates four 
production hubs.
•During the year bp has been awarded 36 lease blocks in the Gulf of 
Mexico lease sale 259, which includes 22 leases that may provide 
options to further enhance our resource positions at Kaskida and Tiber. 
bp also moved forward with progression of the Kaskida project, bp's first 20K development in the Paleogene, and progresses on concept 
selection for bp-operated Tiber development project in the Gulf of 
Mexico.
•In April bp announced start-up of the Mad Dog Phase 2 Argos platform 
(bp 60.5% operator). With a gross production capacity of up to 
140mboe/d, Argos is bp’s fifth platform in the Gulf of Mexico. 
•Following a successful appraisal well in the southwest part of the Mad 
Dog field, bp sanctioned the Argos Southwest Expansion project to tie 
back into the Argos facility. 
•bp was the apparent high bidder on 24 leases in the Gulf of Mexico 
Lease Sale 261 that took place on 20 December 2023.
•In December partners approved the expansion of the Shell-operated 
Great White development in the Gulf of Mexico through a phased three-
well campaign (bp 33.33%).
bpx energy, bp's onshore oil and gas business in the Lower 48 states, has 
significant operated and non-operated activities across Louisiana and 
Texas producing natural gas, oil, NGLs and condensate, with primary focus 
on developing unconventional resources. It had a 1.6 billion  boe proved 
reserve base at 31 December 2023 , predominantly in unconventional 
reservoirs (tight gas «, shale gas and shale oil). bpx energy's core assets 
span 0.9 million net developed acres  with nearly 2,000 operated gross wells 
at 31 December 2023. Daily net production averaged 366mboe/d in 2023.
bpx energy continues to operate as a separate business while remaining 
part of the OP&O segment. With its own governance, systems, and 
processes, it is structured to increase competitive performance through 
swift decision making and innovation, while maintaining bp’s commitment 
to safe, reliable and compliant operations. 
•MiQ, the non-profit global leader in methane certification, announced 
that it has independently audited and certified bp as the first energy 
major in the US to verify the methane intensity of its entire US onshore 
portfolio of natural gas.
•In August bpx energy successfully brought online 'Bingo', its second 
central processing facility in the Permian Basin. It is a low-emission, 
electrified facility that will enable further production growth for bpx 
energy in the basin (bp 100% operator).
•During the year an impairment charge of $0.8 billion was recognized as 
a result of changes to the group's oil and gas price and discount rate 
assumptions and disposal decisions.
bp’s onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related transportation 
assets were included in the customers & products segment in 2023.
In Canada, bp is focused on pursuing offshore exploration and 
development opportunities and conducts trading and marketing activities 
across various energy commodities. We hold exploration and significant 
discovery licences offshore Newfoundland and Labrador, including an 
interest in the Equinor-operated Bay du Nord project. bp also hold s offshore 
exploration licences in the Arctic where the moratorium has been extended 
until 31 December 2028.
In Mexico, bp held interests in two exploration blocks in the Salina Basin 
with Equinor and Total, Block 1 (bp 33% operator) and Block 3 (bp 33%), and 
one exploration block in the Sureste Basin, Block 34 (bp 42.5% operator), 
with Total, QPI Mexico and Hokchi Energy. Hokchi Energy is a subsidiary of 
Pan American Energy Group (PAEG, see below) in which bp owns 50%. 
Separate to the above holdings in Mexico, Hokchi Energy also holds an 
interest in two other blocks. 
•Contract termination for Block 3 was executed in April 2023.
•Formal relinquishment of Block 1 and Block 34 licences are still pending 
regulatory approval. 
South America
bp has oil and gas activities in Argentina, Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago 
and, through PAEG, in Argentina and Bolivia. 
In Argentina, bp and Total (operator) are partners on a 50:50 basis in two 
offshore exploration concessions. Total as the operator issued a 
relinquishment note to the regulator, which is still pending approval.
In Brazil bp has interests in seven exploration areas across three basins.
•During 2023 bp and Petrobras received an approval from the regulatory 
authorities for relinquishments submitted for Dois Irmãos, C-M-755, C-
M-793, BC-2, BM-POT-16, S-M-1500, and Peroba blocks.
342 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

•In May the regulatory authorities approved the final relinquishment of 
Xerelete (BC-2) operated by Total.
•In June the contract was executed for the Bumerangue block (bp 100%), 
in the Santos Basin.
•In September the appraisal plan (PAD) for Alto de Cabo Frio Central 
block (bp 50%), in the southern portion of the Campos Basin, was filed 
with the regulator and is pending approval.
•In Brazil´s second Permanent Production Sharing Offer bid round in 
December 2023, bp successfully bid on the Tupinambá block, an area of 
3,056km2 located in the Santos Pre-Salt Basin. bp will hold 100% 
participation interest on the block when  the contract is executed later in 
2024 . 
PAEG, a joint venture that is owned by bp (50%) and BC E&P Uruguay S.A. 
(50%), has activities mainly in Argentina and as noted above Mexico, and is 
also present in Bolivia. 
In Trinidad and Tobago bp holds interests in exploration and production 
licences and production-sharing contracts (PSCs) « covering 2.5 million 
acres offshore of the east and north-east coast. Facilities include 16 
offshore platforms and two onshore processing facilities. Production 
comprises gas and associated liquids.
bp also holds interests in the Atlantic LNG facility. The total gross capacity 
of the four LNG trains making up the facility is approximately 12 million 
tonnes per annum. bp’s shareholding averages 40% across the three 
companies which own the LNG trains comprising the LNG facility. During 
2023 bp sold gas to trains 2 and 3 and processed gas in train 4. Most of the 
LNG produced from bp gas supplied to Trains 2, 3 and 4 is sold under long-
term contracts.
•Cypre, bp’s third subsea gas development in Trinidad and Tobago, is 
expected to start drilling in 2024  with first gas expected in 2025. The 
project is expected to have seven wells and be tied back to the Juniper 
platform.
•The Joe Douglas rig continued drilling in 2023 with Mango and is 
progressing to Savonette and Angelin. This development will leverage 
existing infrastructure and contribute to sustained delivery.
•Trinidad Offshore Pipeline Replacement (TOPR) project for a 12-inch 
liquids pipeline that connects Mahogany B to terminal was safely 
integrated into the production system in 2023. Additionally, construction 
of the Ocelot project, which is a 6-inch liquids pipeline connecting 
Beachfield to terminal, is under way.
•bp was awarded three deepwater blocks off Trinidad’s east coast in a 
bp/Shell partnership (50:50). bp is the operator of Blocks 25a & 25b and 
Shell is the operator of Block 27. Activity in the coming years will include 
seismic acquisition and interpretation and exploration wells.
•bp is operator of the Manakin block which was discovered in 1998 and 
is a cross-border reservoir field with the Venezuelan reservoir, Cocuina. 
Manakin declared commerciality in January 2018, however cross-border 
discussions have not progressed due to the impact of US sanctions. In 
October 2023 the US government eased sanctions on Venezuela’s oil 
sector for six months.
•Since the conclusion of short-term gas supply agreements, the Atlantic 
Train 1 plant has not been operational. The Atlantic shareholders, bp, 
Shell and the National Gas Company of Trinidad & Tobago (NGC) , 
agreed to decouple the Train from the rest of the Atlantic facility with a 
view to decommissioning it. The Train has been made safe and 
decoupling and decommissioning work scopes are being planned. On 5 
December 2023 bp, Shell and NGC agreed and executed the agreements 
for the restructuring of the ownership and commercial framework of the 
Atlantic LNG.
•During the year an impairment charge of $0.6 billion was recognized as 
a result of changes to the group's oil and gas price and discount rate 
assumptions and activity phasing. 
Africa
bp’s oil and gas activities in Africa are located in Angola, Egypt, Libya, 
Mauritania and Senegal. 
In Angola, bp and Eni each own 50% interest in the Azule Energy joint 
venture. Azule Energy is Angola’s largest independent equity producer of oil 
and gas, holding stakes in 20 licences, as well as an interest in the Angola 
LNG plant.•During the year, Azule Energy has taken the final investment decision for 
the Agogo Integrated West Hub Development oil project.
•In August Azule Energy signed a production-sharing agreement (PSA) « 
for Block 31/21. The agreement results from the 2021/2022 Limited 
Offshore Licensing Round and is a significant stride towards advancing 
exploration in the Lower Congo Basin.
•In December Azule Energy made progress on sustaining resilient 
hydrocarbon production with four new exploration agreements in blocks 
adjacent to existing operations (46, 47, 14/23 and 18/15).
In Egypt, bp's investments in the country include West Nile Delta, Atoll and 
Zohr. Through its joint ventures with Egyptian Natural Gas Holding 
Company (EGAS), Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), 
International Egyptian Oil Company (IEOC), Eni, the Pharaonic Petroleum 
Company (PhPC) and through collaboration with Belayim Petroleum 
Company (Petrobel), bp and its partners now produce more than 70% of 
Egypt's total gas supply. In addition, bp owns interest in other exploration 
projects. 
•In October bp secured an exploration block located offshore Egypt as 
part of the EGAS 2022 International Bid Round. The EGY-MED-E8 (East 
Port Said) block (bp 33%) is located in the Mediterranean Sea, 
approximately 50-90km from Post Said city and covering an area of 
approximately 2,620km2. In addition to farming into the existing North 
East Hap’y Offshore Concession the block is currently in the second 
exploration phase with an exploration well spudded in October 2023.
•On 14 February 2024 bp announced the formation of a new joint venture 
in Egypt (bp 51%, ADNOC 49%) under which, subject to regulatory 
approvals, bp will contribute its interests in three non-operated 
development concessions as well as exploration agreements in Egypt, 
and ADNOC will make a proportionate cash contribution.
In Libya, bp partners with the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) and Eni in 
an exploration and production-sharing agreement (EPSA) to explore 
acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins (bp 42.5%). bp 
wrote off all balances associated with the Libya EPSA in 2015.
•Eni’s acquisition of a 42.5% interest in the bp-operated EPSA in Libya 
has been ratified by the Libyan authorities effective November 2022, 
upon which Eni became exploration operator under the EPSA. bp, LIA 
and Eni continue to work with the Libyan NOC towards finalizing the 
transfer of operatorship from bp to Eni, recommencement of petroleum 
operations and completion of the programme of exploration and drilling 
activities included in the EPSA.
In Mauritania and Senegal, bp retains the exploitation licences in the 
respective C8 and Saint Louis Offshore Profond blocks pertinent to the 
Greater Tortue Ahmeyim (GTA) Unit cross-border development. In addition, 
bp holds a 62% participating interest in the BirAllah gas resource 
exploration licence. 
•The GTA project (bp 56%) continues to progress with phase 1 critical 
milestones including the completion of the offshore hub terminal 
construction and sailaway of the gas processing FPSO from China in 
January 2023 . The floating LNG vessel reached its destination in 
February 2024 . 
•In February 2023 bp and its partners on the GTA project announced their 
agreement to evaluate viability of a gravity-based structure (GBS) as the 
basis for the GTA Phase 2 expansion project.
•In Senegal, we have exited the Cayar Offshore Profond PSA and 
transferred operatorship of Yakaar-Teranga gas resource to Kosmos 
Energy . As a result of the exit, an exploration write-off of $0.3 billion was 
recognized.
•In 2023  an impairment charge of $1.4 billion was recognized in respect 
of certain assets in the region due to increased future forecast 
expenditure. 
Asia
bp has activities in Abu Dhabi, Azerbaijan, China, India, Indonesia, Iraq, 
Kuwait and Oman.
In China, we have a 30%  equity stake in the Guangdong LNG regasification 
terminal and trunkline project (GDLNG) with a total storage capacity of 
640,000 cubic metres. bp also has 0.6 million tons per annum of 
regasification capacity at GDLNG for up to 12 years starting from the 
beginning of 2021. bp imports LNG from our global portfolio and delivers Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 343

regasified natural gas via the terminal to power plant and city gas 
customers in Guangdong province under long-term sales contracts.
In Azerbaijan, bp operates two PSAs, Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (ACG) (bp 
30.37%) and Shah Deniz (bp 29.99%) and also holds a number of other 
exploration leases. 
•bp and SOCAR signed a protocol to extend the Shafag-Asiman 
exploration period until the end of June 2024 to allow bp and SOCAR to 
agree on the terms of any potential follow-on exploration activity.
•Following dry hole results in each of the three prospective areas of the 
Shallow Water Absheron Peninsula (SWAP) PSA, the contract area was 
relinquished in December 2022. The joint operating agreement was 
terminated on 27 December 2023.
Naftiran Intertrade Co Ltd (NICO), a subsidiary of the National Iranian Oil 
Company, holds a 10% interest in the Shah Deniz joint venture. For 
information on the exclusion of this project from EU and US trade 
sanctions, see International trade sanctions on page 357 .
bp holds a 30.1%  interest in and operates the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) oil 
pipeline. The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil from the ACG oilfield 
and condensate from the Shah Deniz gas and condensate field in the 
Caspian Sea, along with other third-party oil, to the eastern Mediterranean 
port of Ceyhan. The pipeline has a capacity of 1mmboe/d, with an average 
throughput in 2023 of 626mboe/d.
bp (as operator of Azerbaijan International Operating Company and the 
Georgian Pipeline Company for the Georgian section) also operates the 
Western Route Export Pipeline (WREP) that transports ACG oil to Supsa on 
the Black Sea coast of Georgia, with an average throughput of 3mboe/d in 
2023. Exports through the pipeline have been suspended since May 2022 
due to a lack of nominations from the shipper group. In current market 
conditions WREP serves as a contingency export route for ACG crude 
product. In February 2023 WREP was restarted for two weeks following a 
temporary suspension of liftings from BTC in the wake of the Turkish  
earthquake on 6 February 2023.
•The Azeri Central East (ACE) project is the next stage of development of 
the giant ACG field in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea. During 
the third quarter the ACE platform topsides unit was safely installed in 
the field and the first pre-drill well was spudded. This is the seventh and 
most automated platform installed in the giant ACG field with 
approximately 100mboe/d installed capacity.
bp holds a 29.99% interest in and operates certain parts of the 693-
kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline. The pipeline takes gas from the Shah 
Deniz field in Azerbaijan through Georgia to the Turkish  border and has a 
capacity of 440mboe/d (including expansion), with average throughput in 
2023 of 370mboe/d.
bp also holds a 12% interest in the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline 
(TANAP). The pipeline takes Shah Deniz gas from the Turkish  border and 
transports it to Eskisehir in Türkiye and to the Greek border where it 
connects with the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP). The current capacity of 
TANAP is 275mboe/d and the average throughput in 2023 was 285mboe/d. 
bp has a 20% interest in TAP, which takes gas through Greece and Albania 
into Italy. The current capacity of TAP is 167mboe/d and the total average 
throughout in 2023 was 191mboe/d. TAP and TANAP throughputs 
exceeded capacity during 2023 due to high flow tests taking place during 
the year.
•In 2023 bp and our co-venturers in the Shah Deniz Consortium have 
secured additional capacity in the SNAM RETE GAS, and TANAP 
pipelines for 2026-2028 period, which will allow the export of more Shah 
Deniz gas to Europe.
In Oman, bp operates Block 61, the largest tight gas development in the 
Middle East (bp 40%). bp also has a 50% interest in Block 77 with Eni 
(operator) in which an exploration well was spudded in October 2023, 
scheduled for completion  in 2024 .
In Abu Dhabi, bp holds a 10% interest in the ADNOC Onshore concession. 
We also have a 10% equity shareholding in ADNOC LNG and a 10% 
shareholding in the shipping company NGSCO. ADNOC LNG supplied 
approximately 5.09 million tonnes of LNG (0.7bcfe/d regasified) in 2023. 
Our interest in the ADNOC Onshore concession expires at the end of 2054.•On 28 March bp, together with ADNOC, made a non-binding offer to take 
NewMed Energy private through an acquisition of the free float and a 
partial acquisition of Delek’s stake, which would result in bp and ADNOC 
holding 50% of NewMed Energy. 
A consortium of Azerbaijan's national oil company SOCAR along with bp 
and Israel's NewMed was awarded two licence blocks.
In 2016 bp signed an enhanced technical service agreement for south and 
east Kuwait conventional oilfields, which includes the Burgan field, with 
Kuwait Oil Company.
In India, we have a participating interest in two oil and gas PSAs (KG D6 
33.33% and NEC25 33.33%), and two oil and gas blocks under a revenue 
sharing contract (KG-UDWHP-2018/1 40% and KG-UDWHP-2022/1 40%), all 
operated by Reliance Industries Limited (RIL). We also have a 50% stake in 
India Gas Solutions Private Limited, a joint venture with RIL, for the sourcing 
and marketing of gas in India.
•On 30 June bp and RIL (operator) announced commencement of 
production from MJ, the last of three new deepwater developments in 
the KG D6 block off the east coast of India. With this development, 
production from the three fields in KG D6 block is expected to account 
for around one third of India’s current domestic gas production and 
meet approximately 15% of India’s gas demand.
•In December 2023 bp and RIL were awarded the ultra deepwater block 
KG-UDWHP-2022/1 (RIL operator 60%, bp 40%), adjacent to block KG-
UDWHP-2018/1, in India’s Open Acreage Licensing Policy bid round VIII 
and both RIL and bp have entered into a revenue sharing contract with 
the government of India.
In Indonesia, bp holds an interest in the Andaman II PSC exploration block 
(operated by Harbour Energy), located offshore North Sumatra and in 
Agung I and Agung II exploration blocks offshore Indonesia. Agung I covers 
over 6,000km2 off the coast of Bali and East Java and Agung II spans 
almost 8,000km2 offshore South Sulawesi, West Nusa Tenggara and East 
Java. 
In Iraq, bp holds a 49% participating interest in Basra Energy Company 
Limited (BECL). BECL is an incorporated joint venture (IJV) company owned 
by bp (49%) and PetroChina (51%) and acts as Rumaila lead contractor 
since 2022.
Australasia
bp has activities in Australia and Eastern Indonesia.
In Australia bp is one of seven participants in the North West Shelf (NWS) 
venture, which has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, condensate, LPG and 
oil since the 1980s. Six partners (including bp) hold an equal 16.67%  
interest in the gas infrastructure and an equal 15.78%  interest in the gas 
and condensate reserves, with a seventh partner owning the remaining 
5.32%  of these reserves. The NWS venture is one of the largest LNG export 
projects in the region, with five LNG trains in operation, and supplies 
domestic gas into the Western Australia market. bp’s net share of the 
capacity of NWS LNG trains 1-5 is 2.67 million tonnes (15.78% of 16.9mtpa 
gross) of LNG per year. This will be reduced as the first LNG train is taken 
offline in 2024. bp is also one of five participants in the Browse LNG 
venture.
•bp completed the acquisition of Shell’s interest in  the Browse joint 
venture  in October 2023, which increased bp’s interest from 17.33% to 
44.33%. Browse is an LNG project operated by Woodside. The Browse 
joint venture participants continue to work to optimize the current 
development scheme for Browse which consists of two new built 
offshore FPSOs connecting back to the NWS Venture's Karratha Gas 
Plant via a 917km 42-inch  pipeline.
bp also has a 50% interest in the WA-541 exploration title in Western 
Australia's offshore Northern Carnarvon basin. The joint venture, operated 
by Santos, is working towards the drilling of two commitment wells.
In Papua Barat, Eastern Indonesia, bp operates the Tangguh LNG plant (bp 
40.22%). The Tangguh Expansion Project has been completed, adding a 
third LNG processing train, which has been producing LNG since 
September 2023, with 3.8 million tonnes of LNG per annum production 
capacity additional to the existing facility totalling up to 11.4 million tonnes 
per annum. The Tangguh asset comprises 30 production wells, four 
offshore platforms, three LNG processing trains, and two LNG loading 
344 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

facilities. Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in Indonesia, Mexico, China, 
South Korea, Taiwan and Japan through a combination of long, medium 
and spot contracts.
Oil and natural gas
Resource progression
bp manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: prospect 
inventory, contingent resources and reserves. When a discovery is made, 
volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory to the contingent 
resources category. The contingent resources move through various sub-
categories as their technical and commercial maturity increases through 
appraisal activity.
At the point of final investment decision, most proved reserves will be 
categorized as proved undeveloped (PUD). Volumes will subsequently be 
recategorized from PUD to proved developed (PD) as a consequence of 
development activity. When part of a well’s proved reserves depends on a 
later phase of activity, only that portion of proved reserves associated with 
existing, available facilities and infrastructure moves to PD. The first PD 
bookings will typically occur at the point of first oil or gas production. Major 
development projects typically take one to five years from the time of initial 
booking of PUD to the start of production. Changes to proved reserves 
bookings may be made due to analysis of new or existing data concerning 
production, reservoir performance, commercial factors and additional 
reservoir development activity.
Volumes can also be added or removed from our portfolio through 
acquisition or divestment of properties and projects. When we dispose of 
an interest in a property or project, the volumes associated with our 
adopted plan of development for which we have a final investment decision 
will be removed from our proved reserves upon completion of the 
transaction. When we acquire an interest in a property or project, the 
volumes associated with the existing development and any committed 
projects will be added to our proved reserves if bp has made a final 
investment decision and they satisfy the SEC’s criteria for attribution of 
proved status. Following the acquisition, additional volumes may be 
progressed to proved reserves from non-proved reserves or contingent 
resources.
Non-proved reserves and contingent resources in a field will only be 
recategorized as proved reserves when all the criteria for attribution of 
proved status have been met and the volumes are included in the business 
plan and scheduled for development, typically within five years. bp will only 
book proved reserves where development is scheduled to commence after 
more than five years, if these proved reserves satisfy the SEC’s criteria for 
attribution of proved status and bp management has reasonable certainty 
that these proved reserves will be produced.
At the end of 2023  bp had material volumes of proved undeveloped 
reserves held for more than five years in Azerbaijan. These are part of 
ongoing infrastructure-led development activities for which bp has a 
historical track record of completing comparable projects. We have no 
proved undeveloped reserves held for more than five years in our onshore 
US developments.
Over the past five years, bp has annually progressed a weighted average 
17% (18% for 2022  five-year average) of our group proved undeveloped 
reserves (including the impact of disposals and price acceleration effects in 
PSAs) to proved developed reserves. This equates to a turnover time of six 
years. 
Proved reserves as estimated at the end of 2023  meet bp’s criteria for 
project sanctioning and SEC tests for proved reserves. We have not halted 
or changed our commitment to proceed with any material project to which 
proved undeveloped reserves have been attributed.
In 2023  we progressed 624mmboe  of proved undeveloped reserves 
(542mmboe  for our subsidiaries « alone) to proved developed reserves  
through ongoing investment in our subsidiaries’ and equity-accounted 
entities’ development activities. Total development expenditure, excluding 
midstream activities, was $11,263 million in 2023  ($8,206 million  for 
subsidiaries and $3,057 million  for equity-accounted entities). Of the $8,206 
million of total development expenditure for our subsidiaries, approximately 
$2,800 million was used for development activity to progress proved 
undeveloped reserves to proved developed. Of the $3,057 million 
development expenditure for our equity-accounted entities, approximately $1,200 million was used for development activity to progress proved 
undeveloped reserves to proved developed. The major areas with 
progressed volumes in 2023 were the US, Asia Pacific, Trinidad and Tobago 
and the Middle East. 
Revisions of previous estimates for proved undeveloped reserves are due 
to changes relating to field performance, well results, revisions to future 
activity plans (including alignment with our investment criteria and changes 
to the macroeconomic climate) or changes in commercial conditions 
including price impacts. The net revisions to previous estimates across 
both our subsidiaries and our equity-accounted entities include net positive 
revisions driven by price and revisions to activity plans, and net negative 
revisions driven by field performance and well results. The net revisions to 
previous estimates across only our subsidiaries include net positive 
revisions driven by price and revisions to activity plans and net negative 
revisions driven by field performance and well results. In each case, none of 
these factors resulted in revisions that were material to the group as a 
whole. The following tables describe the changes to our proved 
undeveloped reserves position through the year for our subsidiaries and 
equity-accounted entities and for our subsidiaries alone.
volumes in mmboea
Subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities Group
Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2023  2,877 
Revisions of previous estimates  (12) 
Price  24 
Revision of future activity plans  69 
Field performance  (88) 
Well results  (17) 
Improved recovery  108 
Discoveries and extensions  107 
Purchases  74 
Sales  (10) 
Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes  267 
Proved developed reserves reclassified as undeveloped  39 
Progressed to proved developed reserves by 
development activities (e.g. drilling/completion)  (624) 
Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2023  2,558 
Subsidiaries only volumes in mmboea
Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2023  2,392 
Revisions of previous estimates  (22) 
Price  16 
Revision of future activity plans  51 
Field performance  (87) 
Well results  — 
Improved recovery  75 
Discoveries and extensions  27 
Purchases  61 
Sales  (2) 
Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes  139 
Proved developed reserves reclassified as undeveloped  17 
Progressed to proved developed reserves by 
development activities (e.g. drilling/completion)  (542) 
Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2023  2,006 
aBecause of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
bp bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable 
certainty with rigorous technical and commercial assessments based on 
conventional industry practice and regulatory requirements. bp only applies 
technologies that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to 
provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the 
formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. bp applies high-
resolution seismic data for the identification of reservoir extent and fluid 
contacts only where there is an overwhelming track record of success in its 
local application. In certain cases bp uses numerical simulation as part of a 
holistic assessment of recovery factor for its fields, where these 
simulations have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide 
reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 345

formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. In certain 
deepwater fields bp has booked proved reserves before production flow 
tests are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and 
environmental implications of conducting these tests. The industry has 
made substantial technological improvements in understanding, measuring 
and delineating reservoir properties without the need for flow tests. To 
determine reasonable certainty of commercial recovery, bp employs a 
general method of reserves assessment that relies on the integration of 
three types of data:
•Well data used to assess the local characteristics and conditions of 
reservoirs and fluids.
•Field scale seismic data to allow the interpolation and extrapolation of 
these characteristics outside the immediate area of the local well 
control.
•Data from relevant analogous fields.
Well data includes appraisal wells or sidetrack holes, full logging suites, 
core data and fluid samples. bp considers the integration of this data in 
certain cases to be superior to a flow test in providing understanding of 
overall reservoir performance. The collection of data from logs, cores, 
wireline formation testers, pressures and fluid samples calibrated to each 
other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir properties to be 
determined over a greater volume than the localized volume of 
investigation associated with a short-term flow test. There is a strong track 
record of proved reserves recorded using these methods, validated by 
actual production levels.
Governance
bp’s centrally controlled process for proved reserves estimation approval 
forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control. It consists 
of the following elements:
•Accountabilities of certain officers of the group to ensure that there is 
review and approval of proved reserves bookings independent of the 
operating business and that there are effective controls in the approval 
process and verification that the proved reserves estimates and the 
related financial impacts are reported in a timely manner.
•Capital allocation processes, whereby delegated authority is exercised 
to commit to capital projects that are consistent with the delivery of the 
group’s business plan. A formal review process exists to ensure that 
both technical and commercial criteria are met prior to the commitment 
of capital to projects.
•Internal audit, whose role is to consider whether the group’s system of 
internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to 
respond appropriately to the risks that are significant to bp.
•Approval hierarchy, whereby proved reserves changes above certain 
threshold volumes require immediate review and all proved reserves 
require annual central authorization and have scheduled periodic 
reviews. The frequency of periodic review ensures that 100% of the bp 
proved reserves base undergoes central review every three years.
bp’s vice president of reserves is the individual primarily responsible for 
overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimate. He has more than 30 
years of diversified industry experience in reserves estimation with the past 
four years managing the governance and compliance. He is a past 
Chairman of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (Russia & Caspian) and a 
member of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Expert 
Group on Resource Management.
No specific portion of compensation bonuses for senior management is 
directly related to proved reserves targets. Additions to proved reserves is 
one of several indicators by which the performance of the gas & low carbon 
and oil production & operations segments is assessed by the remuneration 
committee for the purposes of determining compensation bonuses for the 
executive directors. Other indicators include a number of financial and 
operational measures.
bp’s variable pay programme for the other senior managers in the gas & 
low carbon and oil production & operations segments is based on individual 
performance contracts. Individual performance contracts are based on 
agreed items from the business performance plan, one of which, if chosen, 
could relate to proved reserves.
Compliance
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) do not provide specific 
guidance on reserves disclosures. bp estimates proved reserves in accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X and relevant 
Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations (C&DI) and Staff Accounting 
Bulletins as issued by the SEC staff.
By their nature, there is always risk involved in the ultimate development 
and production of proved reserves including, but not limited to: final 
regulatory approval; the installation of new or additional infrastructure, as 
well as changes in oil and gas prices; changes in operating and 
development costs; and the continued availability of additional 
development capital. All the group’s proved reserves held in subsidiaries 
and equity-accounted entities are estimated by the group’s petroleum 
engineers or by independent petroleum engineering consulting firms and 
then assured by the group’s petroleum engineers.
Netherland, Sewell & Associates (NSAI), an independent petroleum 
engineering consulting firm, has estimated the net proved crude oil, 
condensate, natural gas liquids (NGLs) and natural gas reserves, as of 
31 December 2023 , of certain properties owned by bp in the US Lower 48. 
The properties evaluated by NSAI account for 100% of bp’s net proved 
reserves in the US Lower 48 as of 31 December 2023 . The net proved 
reserves estimates prepared by NSAI were prepared in accordance with the 
reserves definitions of Rule 4-10(a)(1)-(32) of Regulation S-X. All reserves 
estimates involve some degree of uncertainty. bp has filed NSAI’s 
independent report on its reserves estimates as an exhibit to this Annual 
Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
Our proved reserves are associated with both concessions (tax and royalty 
arrangements) and agreements where the group is exposed to the 
upstream risks and rewards of ownership, but where our entitlement to the 
hydrocarbons is calculated using a more complex formula, such as with 
PSAs. In a concession, the consortium of which we are a part is entitled to 
the proved reserves that can be produced over the licence period, which 
may be the life of the field. In a PSA, we are entitled to recover volumes that 
equate to costs incurred to develop and produce the proved reserves and 
an agreed share of the remaining volumes or the economic equivalent. As 
part of our entitlement is driven by the monetary amount of costs to be 
recovered, price fluctuations will have an impact on both production 
volumes and reserves.
We disclose our share of proved reserves held in equity-accounted entities 
(joint ventures « and associates «), although we do not control these 
entities or the assets held by such entities.
bp’s estimated net proved reserves and proved reserves 
replacement
94% of our total proved reserves of subsidiaries at 31 December 2023  were 
held through joint operations « (94% in 2022 ), and 31% of the proved 
reserves were held through such joint operations where we were not the 
operator (34% in 2022 ).
Estimated net proved reserves of crude oil at 31 December 
2023abc
million barrels
Developed Undeveloped Total
UK  129  74  203 
US  713  352  1,065 
Rest of North America  —  —  — 
South Americad 3  5  7 
Africa  5  —  6 
Rest of Asia  729  323  1,052 
Australasia  11  1  12 
Subsidiaries  1,590  755  2,345 
Equity-accounted entities  588  387  976 
Total  2,179  1,142  3,321 
346 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Estimated net proved reserves of natural gas liquids at 
31 December 2023a b 
million barrels
Developed Undeveloped Total
UK  3  —  3 
US  180  217  397 
Rest of North America  —  —  — 
South America  —  —  — 
Africa  —  —  — 
Rest of Asia  —  —  — 
Australasia  1  —  1 
Subsidiaries  184  217  401 
Equity-accounted entities  19  6  25 
Total  204  223  427 
Estimated net proved reserves of liquids «
million barrels
Developed Undeveloped Total
Subsidiaries  1,775  971  2,746 
Equity-accounted entities  608  393  1,001 
Total  2,382  1,365  3,747 
Estimated net proved reserves of natural gas at 31 December 
2023a b
billion cubic feet
Developed Undeveloped Total
UK  221  34  255 
US  2,672  3,229  5,901 
Rest of North America  —  —  — 
South Americae 931  503  1,434 
Africa  518  207  724 
Rest of Asia  3,051  1,672  4,722 
Australasia  1,550  358  1,907 
Subsidiaries  8,942  6,003  14,944 
Equity-accounted entities  1,608  919  2,527 
Total  10,549  6,922  17,471 
Estimated net proved reserves on an oil equivalent basis
million barrels of oil equivalent
Developed Undeveloped Total
Subsidiaries  3,316  2,006  5,323 
Equity-accounted entities  885  552  1,437 
Total  4,201  2,558  6,759 
aProved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the 
royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make 
lifting and sales arrangements independently, and include non-controlling interests in 
consolidated operations. We disclose our share of reserves held in joint ventures and associates 
that are accounted for by the equity method although we do not control these entities or the 
assets held by such entities.
bThe 2023  marker prices used were Brent $83.27/bbl ( 2022  $101.24/bbl and 2021  $69.23/bbl) and 
Henry Hub $2.58/mmBtu ( 2022  $6.19/mmBtu and 2021  $3.61/mmBtu).
cIncludes condensate.
dIncludes  2.2 million barrels of liquids in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP Trinidad 
and Tobago LLC.
eIncludes 430 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% non-controlling interest in BP 
Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their 
component parts.
Proved reserves replacement
Total hydrocarbon proved reserves at 31 December 2023 , on an oil 
equivalent basis including equity-accounted entities, decreased by 6% 
compared with 31 December 2022  (8% decrease for subsidiaries and 4% 
increase for equity-accounted entities). Natural gas decreased by 5% (7% 
decrease for subsidiaries and  6% increase for equity-accounted entities). 
There was a net increase from acquisitions and disposals of 31mmboe 
within our  US and North Africa subsidiaries .The proved reserves replacement ratio « is the extent to which production 
is replaced by proved reserves additions. This ratio is expressed in oil 
equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to previous 
estimates, improved recovery, and extensions and discoveries. For 2023 , 
the proved reserves replacement ratio excluding acquisitions and disposals 
was 47% (20% in 2022  and 50% in 2021 ) for subsidiaries and equity-
accounted entities, 31% for subsidiaries alone and 136% for equity-
accounted entities alone.  There was a net increase (80mmboe) of reserves 
in some of our PSAs in Azerbaijan and the Middle East due to lower gas and 
oil prices, partially offset by a decrease in the US due to price. 
In 202 3 net additions to the group’s proved reserves (excluding production, 
sales and purchases of reserves-in-place) amounted to 406mmboe 
(227mmboe for subsidiaries and 179mmboe for equity-accounted entities), 
through revisions to previous estimates including price, improved recovery 
from, and extensions to, existing fields and discoveries of new fields.  The 
majority of subsidiary additions were through improved recovery from, and 
extensions to, existing fields and discoveries of new fields where they 
represented a mixture of proved developed and proved undeveloped 
reserves. The principal proved reserves additions in our subsidiaries by 
region were in the US and the Middle East. The principal reserves additions 
in our equity-accounted entities were in Aker BP and PAEG.
In January 2024 it was reported that the Oslo District Court had determined 
that certain development permits granted by the Norwegian government 
during 2023 were invalid. This includes development permits for two fields 
in which Aker bp has an interest. The court’s decision is not final and could 
be appealed. If bp’s equity-accounted share of the reserves attributable to 
these two fields is removed from the calculation of bp’s 2023 proved 
reserves ratio, that ratio would decrease from 47% to 44%. Removal of the 
same reserves from bp’s 2023 reporting would also impac t proved 
hydrocarbon reserves for the group, proved undeveloped reserves and 
estimated net proved reserves on an oil equivalent basis amongst other 
reported measures both for equity-accounted entities and group.
26% of our proved reserves are associated with PSAs. The countries in 
which we produced under PSAs in 2023  were Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, 
Egypt, India, Indonesia, Mexico and Oman. In addition, the technical service 
contract (TSC) « governing our investment in the Rumaila field in Iraq 
functions as a PSA.
The group holds no licences in our PSAs or TSCs due to expire within the 
next three years that would have a significant impact on bp’s reserves or 
production, including undeveloped acreage.
For further information on our reserves see page 254 .Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 347

bp’s net production by country – crude oila and natural gas liquids
thousand barrels per day
bp net share of productionb
Crude oilNatural gas 
liquids
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Subsidiaries
UKc 74  80  82  5  5  5 
Total Europe  74  80  82  5  5  5 
Lower 48 onshorec 69  71  69  66  56  48 
Gulf of Mexico deepwater  266  225  239  22  19  22 
Total US  335  296  308  88  76  70 
Canadacd —  15  25  —  —  — 
Total Rest of North America  —  15  25  —  —  — 
Total North America  335  311  333  88  76  70 
Trinidad and Tobago  4  5  5  4  4  4 
Total South America  4  5  5  4  4  4 
Angolac —  49  80  —  —  — 
Egypt  28  28  23  1  —  — 
Algeriac 1  5  6  1  6  7 
Total Africa  29  83  110  2  6  7 
Abu Dhabi  197  195  171  —  —  — 
Azerbaijan  70  73  77  —  —  — 
Iraqc —  15  43  —  —  — 
India  —  —  —  4  —  — 
Omanc 22  24  26  —  —  — 
Total Rest of Asia  289  307  318  4  —  — 
Total Asia  289  307  318  4  —  — 
Australiac 8  11  11  2  2  2 
Eastern Indonesia  2  1  2  —  —  — 
Total Australasia  10  12  13  2  2  2 
Total subsidiaries  741  797  860  104  93  88 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)
Rosnefte (Russia, Egypt)  —  144  857  —  —  3 
Argentina  51  51  50  1  1  1 
Mexico  5  6  3  —  —  — 
Bolivia  1  2  2  —  —  — 
Egypt  —  —  —  2  3  3 
Norway  60  47  48  3  2  3 
Russia  —  7  30  —  —  — 
Iraq  62  25  — 
Angola  82  33  1  4  2  3 
Total equity-accounted entities  261  314  991  9  9  12 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entitiesf 1,002  1,111  1,851  113  102  100 
aIncludes condensate.
bProduction excludes royalties due to others whether payable in cash or in kind where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales 
arrangements independently.
cIn 2023, bp disposed of its interests in Algeria. In 2022,  bp disposed of its interests in Angola, its interest in Sunrise Oil Sands in Canada, its interest in Rumaila in Iraq, and certain Lower 48 onshore 
interests in the US and certain offshore interests in Australia. In 2021, bp disposed of 20% of its interest in Block 61 in Oman, its interest in Shearwater in the UK North Sea, and certain Lower 48 onshore 
interests in the US. 
dAll of the production from Canada in Subsidiaries is bitumen.
e2022 reflects bp's estimated share of Rosneft production for the period 1 January to 27 February, averaged over the year (see Financial statements – Note 1 ). Includes production in respect of the non-
controlling interest in Rosneft, including production held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft. 
fIncludes 2 net mboe/d of NGLs from processing plants in which bp has an interest ( 2022  2mboe/d and 2021  3mboe/d).
Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
348 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

bp’s net production by country – natural gas
million cubic feet per day
bp net share of productiona
2023 2022 2021
Subsidiaries
UKb 247  271  236 
Total Europe  247  271  236 
Lower 48 onshoreb 1,338  1,148  1,043 
Gulf of Mexico deepwater  149  143  154 
Total US  1,486  1,291  1,197 
Canada  —  —  2 
Total Rest of North America  —  —  2 
Total North America  1,486  1,291  1,199 
Trinidad and Tobago  1,191  1,276  1,260 
Total South America  1,191  1,276  1,260 
Egypt  1,220  1,272  1,206 
Algeriab 16  81  126 
Total Africa  1,236  1,353  1,332 
Azerbaijan  714  670  539 
India  283  216  169 
Omanb 582  599  571 
Total Rest of Asia  1,578  1,485  1,279 
Total Asia  1,578  1,485  1,279 
Australia  301  331  332 
Eastern Indonesia  473  421  429 
Total Australasia  774  752  760 
Total subsidiariesc 6,512  6,428  6,067 
Equity-accounted entities (bp share)
Rosneftd (Russia, Canada, Egypt, Vietnam)  —  238  1,380 
Argentina  247  238  223 
Bolivia  50  56  60 
Mexico  2  2  1 
Norway  58  66  66 
Russia  —  10  42 
Angola  74  64  77 
Total equity-accounted entitiesc 432  674  1,849 
Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities  6,944  7,101  7,915 
aProduction excludes royalties due to others whether payable in cash or in kind where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales 
arrangements independently.
bIn 2023, bp disposed of its interests in Algeria and certain Lower 48 onshore interests in the US. In 2022, bp d isposed of certain Lower 48 onshore interests in the US. In 2021, bp disposed 20% of its 
interest in Block 61 in Oman, its interest in Shearwater in the UK North Sea, and certain Lower 48 onshore interests in the US. 
cNatural gas production volumes exclude gas consumed in operations within the lease boundaries of the producing field, but the related reserves are included in the group’s reserves.
d2022 reflects bp's estimated share of Rosneft production for the period 1 January to 27 February, averaged over the year (see Financial statements – Note 1 ). Includes production in respect of the non-
controlling interest in Rosneft, including production held through bp’s interests in Russia other than Rosneft. 
Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 349

The following tables provide additional data and disclosures in relation to our oil and gas operations.
Average sales price per unit of production (realizations «)a
$ per unit of production
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia AustralasiaTotal
group
average
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
2023
Crude oilb 82.99  —  75.28  —  84.36  76.30  —  83.86  68.27  79.37 
Natural gas liquids  46.52  —  19.26  —  30.76  44.41  —  —  33.47  23.79 
Gas  16.71  —  2.08  —  3.58  4.82  —  7.72  8.89  5.60 
2022
Crude oilb 102.54  —  90.05  84.88  99.09  102.00  —  98.74  86.11  95.70 
Natural gas liquids  60.41  —  31.72  —  60.55  54.78  —  —  54.20  37.00 
Gas  33.45  —  5.61  3.68  7.65  5.21  —  11.81  12.33  9.29 
2021
Crude oilb 71.99  —  62.58  52.49  67.62  68.98  —  67.94  61.46  65.81 
Natural gas liquids  52.07  —  26.85  —  32.81  51.01  —  —  40.98  30.89 
Gas  14.59  —  3.68  2.63  4.06  4.36  —  5.66  7.25  5.20 
Equity-accounted entitiesc
2023
Crude oilb —  81.61  —  —  75.49  80.21  —  75.21  —  78.33 
Natural gas liquids  —  —  —  —  30.95  42.89 N/A  —  —  36.70 
Gas  —  12.80  —  —  3.66  —  —  —  —  5.15 
2022
Crude oilb —  71.14  —  —  78.05  86.73  102.84  90.16  —  90.18 
Natural gas liquidsd —  —  —  —  46.64  — N/A  —  —  46.64 
Gas  —  24.23  —  —  4.75  —  4.35  —  —  6.91 
2021
Crude oilb —  69.23  —  —  62.62  —  61.98  —  —  62.60 
Natural gas liquidsd —  —  —  —  42.47  — N/A  —  —  42.47 
Gas  —  15.26  —  —  3.44  —  1.69  —  —  2.49 
Average production cost per unit of productione
$ per unit of production
EuropeNorth 
AmericaSouth 
America Africa Asia AustralasiaTotal
group
average
UKRest of
Europe USRest of
North
America RussiaRest of
Asia
Subsidiaries
2023  10.69  —  9.61  —  4.53  2.52  —  2.81  2.09  5.78 
2022  10.36  —  9.70  15.36  3.92  5.02  —  3.52  2.04  6.07 
2021  13.97  —  9.17  13.18  4.49  6.17  —  4.92  2.27  6.82 
Equity-accounted entities
2023  —  6.22  —  —  17.87  15.46  —  16.41  —  14.38 
2022  —  6.01  —  —  15.55  21.01  7.39  20.81  —  11.47 
2021  —  9.75  —  —  11.21  —  2.76  —  —  3.82 
aUnits of production are barrels for liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas. Realizations include transfers between businesses, except in the case of Russia.
bIncludes condensate.
cIn certain countries it is common for equity-accounted entities’ agreements to include pricing clauses that require selling a significant portion of the entitled production to local governments or markets at 
discounted prices.
dNatural gas liquids for Russia are included in crude oil.
eUnits of production are barrels for liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas. Amounts do not include ad valorem and severance taxes.
350 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Additional information for customers & products
Reconciliation of customers & products RC profit before 
interest and tax to underlying RC profit before interest and 
tax to adjusted EBITDA « by business
$ million
2023 2022 2021
RC profit before interest and tax for 
customers & products  4,230  8,869  2,208 
Less: Adjusting items gains (charges)  (2,183)  (1,920)  (1,044) 
Underlying RC profit before interest 
and tax for customers & products  6,413  10,789  3,252 
By business:
customers – convenience & mobility  2,644  2,966  3,052 
Castrol – included in customers  730  700  1,037 
products – refining & trading  3,769  7,823  200 
Add back: Depreciation, depletion and 
amortization  3,548  2,870  3,000 
By business:
customers – convenience & mobility  1,736  1,286  1,306 
Castrol – included in customers  167  153  150 
products – refining & trading  1,812  1,584  1,694 
Adjusted EBITDA for customers & 
products  9,961  13,659  6,252 
By business:
customers – convenience & mobility  4,380  4,252  4,358 
Castrol – included in customers  897  853  1,187 
products – refining & trading  5,581  9,407  1,894 
Sales volume
thousand 
barrels per 
day
2023 2022 2021
Marketing salesa2,718 2,613 2,439
Trading/supply salesb358 350 393
Total refined product sales 3,076 2,963 2,832
Crude oilc102 184 249
Total 3,178 3,147 3,081
aMarketing sales include branded and unbranded sales of refined fuel products and lubricants to 
business-to-business and business-to-consumer customers, including service station dealers, 
jobbers, airlines, small and large resellers such as hypermarkets, and the military.
bTrading/supply sales are fuel sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
cCrude oil sales relate to third-party transactions executed primarily by trading and shipping. In 
addition, reported crude oil sales in 2023 includes 68 thousand barrels per day (2022 67 thousand 
barrels per day and 2021 50 thousand barrels per day) relating to volumes sold directly by the gas 
& low carbon energy and oil production & operations segments.
In the table above, volumes of crude oil and refined product trading/supply 
sales are presented on a basis consistent with income statement 
presentation. These figures do not correspond to actual volumes of 
physically traded energy products and are not intended for use in assessing 
emissions volumes or carbon intensity. Marketing volumes shown 
represent physically delivered transactions regardless of income statement 
presentation of such transactions.Reconciliation of customers & products RC profit before 
interest and tax to convenience gross margin
$ million
2023 2022 2021
RC profit before interest and tax for 
customers & products  4,230  8,869  2,208 
Subtract RC profit (loss) before 
interest and tax for refining & trading  1,943  6,008  (468) 
 2,287  2,861  2,676 
Net (favourable) adverse impact of 
adjusting items for convenience & 
mobility  357  105  376 
Underlying RC profit before interest 
and tax for convenience & mobility  2,644  2,966  3,052 
Subtract underlying RC profit before 
interest and tax for Castrol  730  700  1,037 
Add back convenience & mobility 
(excluding Castrol) depreciation, 
depletion and amortization  1,569  1,133  1,156 
Subtract convenience & mobility 
(excluding Castrol) production and 
manufacturing, distribution and 
administration expenses and 
adjusted for fuels, EV charging, 
aviation, B2B and midstream gross 
margina 1,363  1,655  1,335 
Subtract earnings from equity-
accounted entities in convenience & 
mobility (excluding Castrol)  457  225  330 
Convenience gross marginb 1,663  1,519  1,506 
Foreign exchange effects  —  7  (122) 
At constant foreign exchange  1,663  1,526  1,384 
Convenience gross margin growthc 9 %
aAdjusted for portfolio changes.
bExcluding TravelCenters of America and adjusted for other portfolio changes.
cValues are at end 2023 foreign exchange rates. This requires a calculation of the comparative 
convenience gross margin ($ million) at current period foreign exchange rates (constant foreign 
exchange) to compare the current period value with the restated comparative period value.Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 351

Retail sitesa
Number of 
bp-branded 
retail sites
2023 2022 2021
US 8,200 7,750 7,450
Europe 8,050 8,150 8,250
Rest of world 4,850 4,750 4,800
Total 21,100 20,650 20,500
aReported to the nearest 50. Includes sites operated by dealers, jobbers, franchisees, brand 
licensees or  joint venture (JV) partners, under the bp brand. These may move to and from the bp 
brand as their fuel supply agreement or brand licence agreement expires and are renegotiated in 
the normal course of business. Retail sites are primarily branded bp, ARCO , Amoco , Aral,  
Thorntons and TravelCenters of America  and also include sites in India through our Jio-bp JV.Refiner y throughpu tsa b c
thousand 
barrels per 
day
2023 2022 2021
US 662 678 719
Europe 749 804 787
Rest of world — 22 88
Total 1,411 1,504 1,594
%
Refining availability « 96.1 94.5 94.8
aThis does not include bp’s interest in Pan American Energy Group.
bRefinery throughputs reflect crude oil and other feedstock volumes.
cOn 28 February 2023, bp completed the sale of its 50% interest in the bp-Husky Toledo refinery in 
Ohio, US, to Cenovus Energy, its partner in the facility.
Refinery capacity
The following tablea b summarizes bp's average daily crude distillation capacities as at 31 December 2023 .
Crude distillation 
capacitiesc
Country Refinerythousand barrels
per day
US
US North West US Cherry Point 251
US Mid West Whiting 440
  691
Europe
North West Europe Germany Gelsenkirchen 265
Lingen 97
Netherlands Rotterdam 394
Mediterranean Spain Castellón 110
  866
Total capacity at 31 December 2023  1,557 
aThis does not include bp’s interest in Pan American Energy Group.
bOn 28 February 2023, bp completed the sale of its 50% interest in the bp-Husky Toledo refinery in Ohio, US, to Cenovus Energy, its partner in the facility.
cCrude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the highest average sustained unit rate for a consecutive 30-day period under normal operational conditions.
352 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Environmental expenditure
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Operating expenditure  524  416  362 
Capital expenditure  329  224  222 
Clean-ups  23  16  17 
Additions to environmental 
remediation provision  228  502  363 
Increase (decrease) in 
decommissioning provision  920  1,248  1,231 
Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, treatment or 
elimination of air and water emissions and solid waste is often not incurred 
as a separately identifiable transaction. Instead, it forms part of a larger 
transaction that includes, for example, normal operations and maintenance 
expenditure. The figures for environmental operating and capital 
expenditure in the table are therefore estimates, based on the definitions 
and guidelines of the American Petroleum Institute.
Environmental operating expenditure of $524 million  in 2023  (2022  $416 
million ) showed an overall increase of 26% , largely due to increased 
expenditure in BP Rotterdam and BP North America Gas.
Environmental capital expenditure of $329  million in 2023  (2022  $224  
million) showed an overall increase of 47% largely due to increased 
expenditure for BP Products North America and BP North America Gas.
Clean-up costs were $23 million  in 2023  (2022  $16 million ), representing oil 
spill clean-up costs and other associated remediation and disposal costs. 
In addition to operating and capital expenditure, we also establish 
provisions for future environmental remediation work. Expenditure against 
such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not included 
in environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is 
probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. 
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, 
if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation and 
abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate. They often 
depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and 
timing of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and bp’s 
share of liability. Though the costs of future programmes could be 
significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period in 
which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be 
material to the group’s overall results of operations or financial position.
Additions to our environmental remediation provision reflect new liabilities 
and scope/cost reassessments of the remediation plans of a number of 
our sites, primarily in the US. The charge for environmental remediation 
provisions in 2023  arising from new and acquired sites was $37 million  
(2022  $67 million  and 2021  $33 million ).
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oil and gas producing 
assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual decommissioning. 
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility, a provision is 
established that represents the discounted value of the expected future 
cost of decommissioning the asset.
In 2023 , the net increase in the decommissioning provision was primarily 
due to recognition of additional provisions and changes in cost estimate 
assumptions.
We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions. These reviews take 
account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning 
requirements and any technological developments.
Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are usually 
established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 ‘Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’.
Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions appear in 
Financial statements – Note 23 .Regulation of the group’s business
Our businesses and operations are subject to the laws and regulations 
applicable in each country, state or other regional or local area in which they 
occur. These cover virtually all aspects of bp’s activities and include 
matters such as the acquisition of rights to develop and operate projects, 
production rates, royalties, environmental, health and safety protection, fuel 
specifications and transportation, trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes, 
and foreign exchange.
Oil and gas contractual and regulatory framework
The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under 
which our upstream oil and gas interests are held vary from country to 
country. These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by 
or entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled 
company and are sometimes entered into with private property 
owners. Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take 
the form of licences or production-sharing agreements « (PSAs), 
although arrangements with private entities and the US government 
entities are usually by lease.
Licences (or concessions) give the holder the right to explore for, develop 
and produce a commercial discovery. Under a licence, the holder bears the 
risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides the 
financing for these operations. In principle, the licence holder is entitled to 
all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind. A licence holder 
is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which may be in 
cash or in kind.
In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and 
production activities, and in some cases production licences are limited to 
only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration licence.
PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or state-
controlled company generally require bp (alone or with other contracting 
companies) to provide all the financing and bear the risk of exploration and 
production activities in exchange for a share of the production remaining 
after royalties, if any. Less typically, bp may explore for, develop and 
produce hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in 
exchange for reimbursement of costs and/or a fee paid in cash rather than 
production.
bp frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in joint 
arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other international oil 
companies, state-owned or -controlled companies and/or private 
companies. Conventionally, all costs, benefits, rights, obligations, liabilities 
and risks incurred in carrying out joint arrangement or co-ownership 
operations under a lease, licence or PSA are shared among the joint 
arrangement or co-owning parties according to agreed ownership interests 
which are set out in a joint operating agreement. To the extent that any 
liabilities arise, whether to governments or third parties, or as between the 
joint arrangement parties or co-owners themselves, each joint arrangement 
party or co-owner will generally be liable under the terms of a joint 
operating agreement to meet these in proportion to its ownership interest. 
Any agreed allocation of liability amongst the joint arrangement parties is, 
however, often different to the position under the relevant licence, lease or 
PSA which may provide for joint and several liability of the joint 
arrangement parties including for decommissioning obligations. In many 
upstream operations, a party (known as the operator) will be appointed 
(pursuant to a joint operating agreement) to carry out day to-day operations 
on behalf of the joint arrangement or co-ownership. The operator is 
typically one of the joint arrangement parties or a co-owner and will carry 
out its duties either through its own staff, or by contracting out various 
elements to third-party contractors or service providers. bp acts as operator 
on behalf of joint arrangements and co-ownerships in a number of 
countries.
Frequently, work (including drilling and related activities) will be contracted 
out to third-party service providers. The relevant contract will specify the 
work, the remuneration, and typically the risk allocation between the parties. 
Depending on the service to be provided, the contract may also contain 
provisions allocating risks and liabilities associated with pollution and 
environmental damage, damage to a well or hydrocarbon reservoirs and for 
claims from third parties or other losses. The allocation of those risks Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 353

varies among contracts and is determined through negotiation between the 
parties.
In general, bp incurs income tax on income generated from production 
activities (whether under a licence or PSA). In addition, depending on 
the area, bp’s production activities may be subject to a range of other 
taxes, levies and assessments, including special petroleum taxes and 
revenue taxes. The taxes imposed on oil and gas production profits 
and activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on other 
activities, for example in Egypt, the UK, the US and the United Arab 
Emirates.
Low carbon energy – renewables contractual and 
regulatory framework
The majority of our renewable assets are held indirectly through interests in 
incorporated joint ventures or special purpose entities (in either case, a 
Project Company). The renewables contractual and regulatory framework 
and the rights granted in relation to a renewable asset significantly vary 
from country to country. In some countries, the regulatory framework is still 
under development or subject to significant change as the renewables 
industry evolves.
In general terms the rights to a renewable asset are usually held by a 
Project Company through a package of assets that together form the 
renewable project owned by such Project Company, including:
•one or more leases, easements, or licences over land or seabed granted 
by a public or private individual or entity that grant the Project Company 
rights to develop, build and operate the renewable asset in such areas of 
land or seabed;
•one or more generation licences that grant the Project Company the 
right to produce and sell the electricity to the market;
•an interconnection agreement that grants the Project Company the right 
to connect the power project into the grid;
•an offtake agreement which, depending on the country’s electricity 
market, is entered into with a utility company, a corporate buyer or a 
public entity; and
•potentially, a subsidy mechanism in the form of a feed in tariff, contract 
for difference, hedging mechanism or renewable energy certificate to 
support the development of the project.
The risk allocation between the developer/generator and the host 
government or private entity has not been standardized in the industry. 
However, in general terms the Project Company bears the risk of the 
development, construction and operation of the renewable energy project 
and secures the financing for these operations and receives any profit from 
the revenue generated through the offtake agreement and/or subsidy 
mechanism (if available).
US Inflation Reduction Act
The US Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which was signed into law in August 
2022, includes a significant package of largely supply-side measures 
supporting low carbon energy sources and decarbonization technologies in 
the US. The impact of the IRA both on bp’s businesses and more widely on 
the US economy is likely to depend on various factors which are currently 
uncertain, including the implementation of the incentive programmes by the 
US authorities through the Department of Energy (DOE) and other agencies, 
as well as regulatory initiatives at the local and federal level.
In 2023, bp participated in applications for and was subsequently notified 
that it will be awarded various DOE grants related to certain of bp’s low 
carbon energy and decarbonization projects. bp and its co-applicants are 
currently negotiating the applicable award agreements with the DOE and 
we anticipate finalizing these agreements in 2024.
Greenhouse gas regulation
In December 2015, nearly 200 nations at the United Nations climate change 
conference in Paris (COP21) agreed to the Paris Agreement which aims to 
hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C 
above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Signatories aim to reach 
global peaking of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as soon as possible 
and to undertake rapid reductions thereafter, so as to achieve a balance 
between human caused emissions and removals by sinks of GHGs in the 
second half of this century. The Paris Agreement commits all signatories to 
submit Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) (i.e. pledges or plans of climate action) and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving the 
objectives of their NDCs. Signatories are required to submit revised NDCs 
every five years, and the revised NDCs are expected to be more ambitious 
with each revision. The first global stocktake of progress was published by 
the United Nations in September 2023 and further assessments will occur 
every five years. The UAE conference (COP28) in Dubai, which took place in 
November and December 2023, marked the conclusion and outcome of 
this first stocktake and reached a ‘consensus’ which includes calls for an 
acceleration of efforts towards the phase-down of unabated coal power 
and to transition away from fossil fuels in energy systems. 
More stringent national and regional measures relating to the transition to a 
lower carbon economy, such as the UK's 2050 net zero carbon emissions 
commitment, can be expected in the future. These measures could 
increase bp’s production costs for certain products, increase compliance 
and litigation costs, increase demand for competing energy alternatives or 
products with lower-carbon intensity, and affect the sales and 
specifications of many of bp’s products. Further, such measures could lead 
to constraints on production and supply and access to new reserves, 
particularly due to the long-term nature of many of bp’s projects.
Certain current and announced GHG measures and developments 
potentially affecting bp’s businesses in various markets in which bp 
operates are summarized below. For information on steps that bp is taking 
in relation to climate change issues and for details of bp’s GHG reporting, 
see Sustainability – Net zero aims on page 48.
United States
In the US, bp's operations are affected by GHG regulation in a number of 
ways. The federal Clean Air Act (CAA) regulates air emissions, permitting, 
fuel specifications and other aspects of our production, refining, distribution 
and marketing activities.
In November, 2023, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
promulgated the “Standards of Performance for New, Reconstructed, and 
Modified Sources and Emissions Guidelines for Existing Sources: Oil and 
Natural Gas Sector Climate Review.” These regulations are focused on 
methane emissions from oil and gas production at new and existing 
facilities and include significant requirements in the areas of fugitive 
emissions monitoring and repair, flaring, emission event reporting, process 
controller and pump emissions, and storage vessels.
The IRA requires EPA to collect an annual Waste Emissions Charge (WEC) 
on methane emissions from oil and natural gas facilities that exceed 
specific levels of emissions and methane intensity. The WEC is $900/
metric ton of methane emissions occurring in 2024, $1,200/metric ton for 
emissions occurring in 2025, and $1,500/metric ton for emissions 
occurring in 2026 and years thereafter. In January 2024, EPA proposed 
regulations to implement the WEC provisions of the IRA. The date and 
details of those final regulations to be issued are uncertain.
Other EPA GHG and environmental regulations affect electricity generation 
practices and prices and have an impact on the market for fuels used to 
generate electricity and on renewable energy installations. These 
regulations are in flux due to changes in approach between presidential 
administrations, as well as lawsuits challenging those regulations.
In June 2022, the Supreme Court decision in West Virginia v. EPA limited 
EPA’s regulatory authority to require electricity 'generation shifting' (e.g., 
from coal to natural gas or renewable sources). In May 2023, EPA proposed 
new carbon pollution standards for coal and gas-fired power plants. The 
proposed regulations would tighten emissions limits for those plants and 
require some plants to install carbon capture technology. The date and 
requirements of any final regulations issued are uncertain.
In April 2023, EPA proposed regulations to significantly tighten emissions 
standards for light- and medium-duty vehicles for model year (MY) 2027 
and beyond. The proposed regulations are intended to spur emissions 
reductions technology on hydrocarbon-powered vehicles and to encourage 
the transition to electric vehicles. The date and requirements of any final 
regulations issued are uncertain.
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security 
Act of 2007 impose the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), requiring 
transportation fuel sold in the United States to contain a minimum volume 
of renewable fuels. On June 21, 2023, EPA announced a final rule 
establishing biofuel volume requirements and associated percentage 
354 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

standards for cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel (BBD), advanced 
biofuel, and total renewable fuel for 2023-25. Lawsuits have been filed 
challenging this final rule. In addition, certain state initiatives impose 
carbon-intensity reduction requirements on transportation fuels sold in 
those states (e.g. in California, Oregon and Washington).
The federal GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule requires operators of certain 
facilities and producers and importers/exporters of petroleum products to 
file annual GHG emissions reports with EPA quantifying direct emissions 
from affected facilities, as well as the emissions that would result from the 
release or combustion of the petroleum products imported, exported or 
produced.
A number of states, municipalities and regional organizations continue to 
advance climate initiatives that affect our US operations. For example, 
certain state initiatives impose carbon-intensity reduction requirements on 
transportation fuels sold in those states (e.g. in California, Oregon, and 
Washington). Recently, California proposed to increase the stringency of its 
Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) to achieve a 30% reduction in carbon 
intensity required by 2030 (up from 20%). The State of Washington enacted 
state-wide carbon cap and invest legislation and a Clean Fuel Program 
(similar to California’s LCFS) in 2021. In 2022, the State of Washington 
finalized rules implementing both of those programmes.
Our US businesses are subject to increased GHG and other environmental 
requirements and regulatory uncertainty, including that the current or any 
future US administration could revise or revoke current or prior 
administration programmes, as well as the possibility of increased 
expenditures in having to comply with numerous diverse and non-uniform 
regulatory initiatives at the state and local level.
US fuel markets are affected by EPA and National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration (NHTSA) regulation of light, medium and heavy-duty vehicle 
emissions (both fuel economy and tailpipe standards) as well as for non-
road engines and vehicles and certain large GHG stationary emission 
sources. California also imposes Low Emission Vehicle (LEV) and Zero 
Emission Vehicle (ZEV) standards on vehicle manufacturers, and a number 
of other states, as allowed by CAA authority, have adopted California’s 
standards. In August 2022, California finalized the next generation of its 
GHG and ZEV standards (referred to as 'ACC II'). California filed a waiver 
application with EPA in December 2023. Fifteen other states have adopted 
ACC II although EPA has not yet acted upon the application. These 
regulations may impact bp’s product mix and demand for particular 
products in those states. In August 2020, California also entered into 
agreements with several carmakers to meet more demanding emissions 
standards in California. In March 2023, EPA granted California’s request for 
a waiver of pre-emption covering, in part, its Advanced Clean Trucks 
Program, which mandates increasing quantities of ZEV sales for medium- 
and heavy-duty vehicles in the state. A legal challenge to that decision is 
pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.
In 2021 and 2022, the Biden administration revised the fuel economy and 
tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions standards for passenger cars and light 
trucks covering model years (MY) 2023 through 2026. The revised 
standards are more stringent through MY 2026 than the August 2020 
agreements California reached with several carmakers. EPA’s new tailpipe 
carbon dioxide emissions standards were challenged in the U.S. Court of 
Appeals with a decision still pending. EPA has also restored California’s 
Clean Air Act waiver allowing it to set its own GHG automotive tailpipe 
standards and for other states to adopt those standards. That decision has 
also been challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals.
In December 2022, EPA promulgated regulations establishing new 
emission standards for oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and other pollutants for 
highway heavy-duty engines. California has also adopted a 'Heavy-Duty Low 
NOx Omnibus Regulation' which will require manufacturers to comply with 
stricter emissions standards and a number of other states have opted or 
are planning to opt into those California standards. The rule is being phased 
in, with the first phase effective in 2024. bp continues to monitor these 
rules for implications for fuels. These and other EPA initiatives to reduce 
GHG emissions may have a significant effect on the production, sale and 
profitability of many of bp’s products in the US.
European Union 
The EU has adopted a goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 as part 
of the European Green Deal and, subsequently, a 55% GHG reduction target by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. To achieve this target, EU member states 
and Parliament adopted most measures proposed as part of the so-called 
‘Fit for 55’ package. These include revisions of the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme (EU ETS) and a newly created Carbon Border Adjustment 
Mechanism (CBAM); the Renewable Energy Directive (RED) – including an 
obligation on transport fuel suppliers to increase the share of renewables of 
their fuel supply; a sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) blending mandate from 
2025; and CO2 targets for the sales of new vehicles which are expected to 
accelerate the decarbonisation of the transport sector and impact fuel 
demand.
Once fully adopted and implemented, this would inter alia lead to higher 
shares of renewables across all sectors (including transport), a reduced 
number of GHG emission allowances under the EU ETS, and a target of 
zero gramme of CO2 per km for new passenger cars by 2035. The EU also 
adopted measures to reduce methane emissions.
Some EU member states have adopted national targets above and beyond 
current EU climate goals, such as Germany, with a climate neutrality target 
by 2045.
United Kingdom
In April 2021, the UK government announced a target of a 78% reduction in 
emissions by 2035 compared to 1990 levels.
The UK Emissions Trading System (UK ETS) launched on 1 January 2021 
following the end of the Brexit transition period and the UK’s participation in 
the EU ETS. It seeks to provide a carbon pricing mechanism as a tool for 
helping achieve the UK's net zero target and covers the same GHGs and 
sectors as the EU ETS. bp’s North Sea operations are subject to the UK 
ETS.
In July 2023, the UK government published a response to a 2022 
consultation on proposed changes to the UK ETS rules. That response 
included decisions to expand the scope of the scheme to include domestic 
maritime transport from 2026, waste incineration and energy from waste 
from 2028 and process emissions from carbon dioxide venting from the 
upstream oil and gas sector from 2025.
In December 2023, the UK ETS Authority published two consultations. One 
covers a review of the UK ETS markets policy and the other relates to a 
review of free allocation methodology for the stationary sectors under the 
UK ETS to better target those most at risk of carbon leakage.
Other countries and regions
China is operating emission trading pilot programmes in a number of cities 
and provinces. One of bp's subsidiaries in China is participating in these 
programmes. In February 2021 China introduced a national emissions 
trading market (National ETS). The National ETS is intended to be an 
essential tool for China to fulfil its commitment to reach peak emissions by 
2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060. For now, the National ETS participants 
are limited to the key emission entities identified by each provincial-level 
government authority and approved by Ministry for Ecology and 
Environment of China. bp is not participating in the National ETS.
In October 2021, as part of its ‘1+N’ climate policy framework, China issued 
working guidance setting out specific targets and measures for achieving 
peak carbon emissions and carbon neutrality, and an action plan which sets 
out the main objectives for the next decade to achieve peak carbon 
emissions by 2030. The working guidance is the '1' (i.e., a long-term 
approach to combating climate change), while 'N' are various policies 
starting with the action plan. In June 2022, 17 government authorities 
jointly released the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy 2035 
making overall plans to prepare the country to adapt to climate change 
from the present to 2035.
China's domestic voluntary carbon mechanism called the China Certified 
Emission Reduction (CCER) programme has been suspended since 2017. 
In 2023, significant progress toward relaunching the CCER has been made 
by relevant authorities, including the promulgation of a regulation on CCER 
trading for trial implementation and the publication of methodologies that 
will be used to quantify net emission reductions or removals for four types 
of projects (forestation, solar thermal power, offshore wind power 
generation and mangrove revegetation). 
On 5 January 2024, China’s State Council approved an interim regulation for 
the national emissions trading scheme. The final version was issued on 4 
February 2024 which has provisions on defining the scale of the national Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 355

carbon market, determining allocation of emissions allowances and data 
quality supervision.
Other environmental regulation
In addition to the GHG regulations referred to above, climate change 
programmes and regulation of unconventional oil and gas extraction under 
a number of environmental laws may have a significant effect on the 
production, sale and profitability of many of bp’s products.
Environmental laws also require bp to remediate and restore areas affected 
by the release of hazardous substances or hydrocarbons associated with 
our operations or properties. These laws may apply to sites that bp 
currently owns or operates, sites that it previously owned or operated, or 
sites used for the disposal of its and other parties’ waste. See Financial 
statements – Note 23 for information on provisions for environmental 
restoration and remediation.
A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings against 
certain bp group companies under environmental laws could result in 
monetary or other sanctions. Group companies are also subject to 
environmental claims for personal injury and property damage alleging the 
release of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. The costs associated 
with future environmental remediation obligations, governmental 
proceedings and claims could be significant and may be material to the 
results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. We cannot 
accurately predict the effects of future developments, such as stricter 
environmental laws and regulations or enforcement policies, or future 
events at our facilities on the group, and there can be no assurance that 
material liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the future. For a 
discussion of the group’s environmental expenditure, see page 353  and for 
a discussion of legal proceedings, see page 242 .
Significant health, safety and environmental legislation and regulation 
affecting our businesses and profitability, in addition to those referred to 
above, include the following:
United States
•The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other effluent 
discharges from bp’s facilities, and bp is required to obtain discharge 
permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls 
and preventative measures.
•The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) regulates the 
generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated 
with our operations and can require corrective action at locations where 
such wastes have been disposed of or released. bp has incurred, or is 
likely to incur, liability under RCRA or similar state laws in connection 
with sites bp operates or previously operated.
•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (CERCLA) can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire 
cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or operated 
a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or who arranged for 
disposal of a hazardous substance at a site. bp has incurred, or is likely 
to incur, liability under CERCLA or similar state laws, including costs 
attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties. bp is also subject to 
claims for remediation costs and natural resource damages under 
CERCLA and other federal and state laws. CERCLA also requires the 
reporting on the releases of certain quantities of listed hazardous 
substances to designated government agencies.
•The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act requires 
reporting on the storage, use and releases of certain quantities of listed 
extremely hazardous substances to designated government agencies.
•The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) regulates bp’s manufacture, 
import, export, sale and use of chemical substances and products. In 
addition, EPA has revised processes and procedures for prioritisation of 
existing chemicals for risk evaluation, assessment and management. 
Agency actions and announcements are monitored regularly to identify 
developments with potential impacts on chemical substances important 
to bp products and operations.
•The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety and 
health requirements on bp operations along with significant process 
safety management obligations, requiring continuous evaluation and 
improvement of operational practices to enhance safety and reduce workplace emissions at gas processing, refining and other regulated 
facilities.
•The Oil Pollution Act 1990 (OPA) imposes operational requirements, 
liability standards and other obligations governing the transportation of 
petroleum products in US waters. States may impose additional 
obligations. Alaska, West Coast and certain East Coast states impose 
additional requirements and stricter liability standards.
•The Outer Continental Shelf Land Act, the Mineral Leasing Act and other 
statutes give the Department of Interior (DOI) and the BLM authority to 
regulate operations and air emissions, including equipment and testing, 
on offshore and onshore operations on federal lands subject to DOI 
authority.
•The Endangered Species Act (ESA) and Marine Mammal Protection Act 
protect certain species’ habitats from adverse human impacts by 
restricting operations or development at certain times and in certain 
places. In 2020, the US Fish and Wildlife Service published regulatory 
definitions impacting habitat designations under the ESA, but in June 
2022, the Biden administration rescinded those definitions. The Biden 
administration rescission of those definitions could expand the 
geographic areas subject to habitat protections.
European Union
•The Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) 2010 provides the framework 
for granting permits for major industrial sites. A recently agreed revision 
of the IED could, once formally adopted and implemented, potentially set 
more stringent permitting requirements, and lead to a further tightening 
of emission limit values. 
•The EU Registration, Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of 
Chemicals (REACH) Regulation 2006 requires registration of chemical 
substances manufactured in or imported into the EU, together with the 
submission of relevant hazard and risk data. REACH affects our 
manufacturing or trading/import operations in the EU. bp maintains 
compliance by checking whether imports are covered by the 
registrations of non-EU suppliers’ representatives, preparing and 
submitting registration dossiers to cover new manufactured and 
imported substances, and updating previously submitted registrations 
as required. 
•The Water Framework Directive (WFD) published in 2000 aims to 
protect the quantity and quality of ground and surface waters of the EU 
member states. The implementation in the EU member states is still 
ongoing, planned to be finalised by 2027. Future proceedings on the 
determination of pollutants/priority substances as well as 
environmental quality standards in line with the WFD may require 
additional compliance efforts and increased costs for managing 
freshwater withdrawals and discharges from bp’s EU operations.
•The Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) entered into 
force on 5 January 2023 introducing new requirements for companies 
with securities listed on an EU regulated market or which exceed a 
threshold for turnover derived in the EU, to include disclosures related to 
climate, the environment and wider sustainability issues. The CSRD also 
expands to in-scope entities the requirements introduced by the EU 
Taxonomy Regulation, to identify environmentally sustainable activities 
and then disclose metrics related to capital and operating expenditure 
and turnover associated with those activities. Disclosure requirements 
will be phased in from 2025, in respect of the 2024 financial year.
United Kingdom
•Following the UK’s exit from the European Union, operative EU laws 
were retained in UK law by the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 
(EUWA). In June 2023, the Retained EU Law (Revocation and Reform) 
Act 2023 received Royal Assent. That Act allows for significant changes 
to the status, operation and content of retained EU law, including 
through amendments to the EUWA. However, the UK government has 
not issued a policy statement on how it intends to use these powers and 
therefore future amendments to and deviations from retained EU law 
including in respect of environmental matters are uncertain.
•Since the end of the transition period on 31 December 2020, there has 
been a parallel UK REACH regime which applies in Great Britain only, 
with EU REACH continuing to apply in Northern Ireland. UK REACH 
356 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

contains equivalent requirements to EU REACH, although future 
developments and potential divergences are uncertain. 
•The Environment Act 2021 comprises various key parts including 
governance, waste and resource efficiency, air quality and 
environmental recall, water, nature and biodiversity and conservation 
covenants. The governance parts include a comprehensive framework 
for legally binding environmental improvement targets; to establish a 
framework for future policy statements on environmental principles to 
protect the environment by making environmental considerations a key 
part of policy development process across government; and to establish 
the Office for Environmental Protection, an independent public body to 
have oversight of environmental matters. The UK government’s first 
suite of environmental targets became law in January 2023, but these 
are not expected to have a material impact on bp. 
Other countries and regions
Regulations governing the discharge of treated water have also been 
developed in countries outside of the US and EU including in Trinidad where 
bp commissioned a new wastewater treatment plant in 2020 to meet 
consent levels agreed with the regulators to apply relevant water discharge 
rules. 
The Abidjan Convention, along with the Additional Protocol published in 
2012, sets environmental quality standards for the discharge of chemicals 
to the marine environment. Mauritania and Senegal are both signatories to 
the Abidjan Convention. bp is currently constructing the offshore facilities 
to include produced water management systems to meet the 
environmental quality standards for our future gas operations in Mauritania 
and Senegal.
Environmental maritime regulations
bp’s shipping operations are subject to extensive national and 
international regulations governing operations, training, pollution 
prevention, liability, and insurance. These include:
•Liability and spill prevention and planning requirements governing, 
among others, tankers, barges, and offshore facilities are imposed by 
OPA in US waters. OPA also mandates a levy on imported and 
domestically produced oil to fund oil spill responses. Some states, 
including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional 
liability for oil spills. Outside US territorial waters, bp shipping tankers are 
subject to international pollution prevention, liability, spill response and 
preparedness regulations developed through the UN’s International 
Maritime Organization (IMO), including the International Convention on 
Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, the International Convention for 
the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), the International 
Convention on Oil Pollution, Preparedness, Response and Co-operation, 
and the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution 
Damage. In April 2010, the Hazardous and Noxious Substance (HNS) 
Protocol 2010 was adopted to address issues that have inhibited 
ratification of the International Convention on Liability and 
Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of 
Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea 1996. As at 31 December 
2023, the HNS Convention had not entered into force.
•A global sulphur cap of 0.5% applies to marine fuel under MARPOL with 
a stricter 0.1% cap in environmentally sensitive areas. In order to 
comply, ships either need to consume low sulphur marine fuels, operate 
on alternative low sulphur fuels such as LNG or implement approved 
abatement technology to enable them to meet the low sulphur 
emissions requirements while continuing to use higher sulphur fuel. This 
global cap does not alter the lower 0.1% limits that apply in the sulphur 
oxides Emissions Control Areas established by the IMO.
•From 2023 all vessels over 400 gross tonnage became subject to IMO 
requirements as to energy efficiency design (EEXI) and the carbon 
intensity of operations (CII).
•Under EU legislation, maritime transport will be gradually brought into 
the scope of the EU ETS from 2024, applicable to all vessels over 5000 
gross tonnage calling at EU ports regardless of a vessel’s flag.
•Under the proposed Fuel EU Maritime Regulation, from 2025 ship 
owners will need to reduce the GHG intensity of their fuel use gradually 
over time, initially by 2% by 2030 and 80% by 2050.•The Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the 
North-East Atlantic (OSPAR), aims to protect the marine environment of 
the North-East Atlantic. The OSPAR 2012 recommendation and 
guideline for the implementation of a risk-based approach to the 
management of produced water discharges from offshore installations 
in the North Sea supports a key goal of working towards eliminating 
harmful discharges. In 2020 the International Association of Oil and Gas 
Producers issued a report 'Oil And Gas Risk Based Assessment of 
Offshore Produced Water Discharges' which presents industry good 
practice and aims to broaden the understanding and acceptance of Risk 
Based Assessment (RBA) techniques internationally and improve 
consistency in the application of assumptions, levels of conservatism, 
and selection of risk endpoints.
To meet its financial responsibility requirements, bp shipping maintains 
marine oil pollution liability insurance in respect of its operated ships to a 
maximum limit of $1 billion for each occurrence through mutual insurance 
associations (P&I Clubs), although there can be no assurance that a spill 
would necessarily be adequately covered by insurance or that liabilities 
would not exceed insurance recoveries.
International trade sanctions
During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries, or other non-
US entities of bp, conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, 
certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State 
Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US, EU and UK sanctions 
(Sanctioned Countries). In 2023, sanctions restrictions were insignificant to 
the group’s financial condition and results of operations. bp monitors its 
activities with Sanctioned Countries, persons from Sanctioned Countries 
and individuals and companies subject to US, EU and UK sanctions and 
seeks to comply with applicable sanctions laws and regulations.
bp has a 29.99% interest in and operates the Shah Deniz field in Azerbaijan 
(Shah Deniz), has a 29.99% interest in and performs some operations for a 
related gas pipeline entity, South Caucasus Pipeline Company Limited 
(SCPC), and has a 23.99% non-operating interest in a related gas marketing 
entity, Azerbaijan Gas Supply Company Limited (AGSC). Naftiran Intertrade 
Co. Limited and NICO SPV Limited (collectively, NICO) have a 10% non-
operating interest in each of Shah Deniz and SCPC and an 8% non-
operating interest in AGSC. Shah Deniz, SCPC and AGSC continue in 
operation as they were excluded from the application of US sanctions and 
fall within the exception for certain natural gas projects under Section 603 
of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA).
On 3 December 2018 bp entered into an agreement with, among others, 
SOCAR and NICO pursuant to which SOCAR pays to BP Exploration (Shah 
Deniz) Limited (BPXSD), as the Shah Deniz operator, compensation for 
NICO’s waiver of its right to lift its share of Shah Deniz condensate. Such 
amounts are used to cover cash calls to NICO in respect of operating costs 
due from NICO to BPXSD. On 12 February 2022, OFAC issued a renewed 
licence in relation to these arrangements which expires on 15 April 2024. 
An application for a further renewal has been submitted and is subject to 
OFAC’s approval.
Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against 
Syria, bp terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into Syria, 
though bp continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental Syrian 
resellers outside of Syria.
bp has a joint arrangement in Cuba which imports, manufactures, markets 
and sells lubricants.
During 2014, the US and the EU imposed sanctions on certain sectors of 
the Russian economy (energy, finance and defence/military) and on certain 
individuals and entities, including Rosneft. These sectoral sanctions include 
restrictions on the provision of financial assistance, technical assistance, 
and services in relation to exploration and production activity in deepwater, 
shale, and offshore Arctic.
Additional US sanctions have been imposed since 2014, broadening the 
scope of US sanctions on Russia-related activity to include certain 
international deepwater, shale, and offshore Arctic projects as well as the 
provision of goods and services for Russian energy export pipelines.
In response to Russia’s military action in Ukraine in 2022, the US, EU, UK 
and many other countries have imposed broad economic and trade Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 357

sanctions. The scope of these sanctions includes restrictions on dealing 
with designated individuals and entities; restrictions on the Russian 
financial sector; blocking economic activity in certain areas of Ukraine not 
controlled by the Ukrainian government; prohibitions in relation to 
investment in Russia; prohibitions and restrictions relating to Russian origin 
oil and oil products; prohibitions and restrictions relating to Russian origin 
iron and steel products, prohibitions and restrictions relating to Russian 
origin metals, prohibitions and restrictions on the provision of certain legal 
advisory services, prohibitions and restrictions in relation to transportation, 
including shipping and aircraft; trade controls limiting the purchase and 
import of a wide range of goods from Russia, and export controls limiting 
the export of a wide range of goods and technical assistance to Russia.
In response, Russia has implemented counter-sanctions including 
restrictions on the divestment from Russian assets by foreign investors and 
restrictions on the payments of dividends to certain foreign shareholders, 
including those based in the UK, requiring such dividends to be paid in 
roubles into restricted bank accounts and a requirement for approval of the 
Russian government for transfers from any such bank accounts out of 
Russia.
The bp group does not source any materials directly from Russia, except 
deliveries of LNG from Russian sources under a small number of contracts 
predating the Russia and Ukraine conflict in compliance with all applicable 
sanctions. bp has also discontinued sales of our products to customers in 
Russia. Such sales were not material to the bp group. As a result, outside of 
our shareholding in Rosneft and related businesses in Russia, direct 
impacts due to exposure to Russia have not been material and are not 
expected to be material in the future. bp continues to monitor Russia 
related sanctions and other international restrictions for any impacts on our 
businesses and the exit of our shareholding in Rosneft. See page 173 for 
further information in relation to bp’s shareholding in Rosneft.
bp maintains bank accounts and has registered and paid required fees to 
maintain registrations of patents and trademarks in certain Sanctioned 
Countries.
bp has equity interests in non-operated joint arrangements with air fuel 
sellers, resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world. From time to 
time, the joint arrangement operator or other partners may sell or deliver 
fuel to airlines from Sanctioned Countries or flights to Sanctioned 
Countries, without bp’s involvement.
bp has no control over the activities non-controlled associates may 
undertake in Sanctioned Countries or with persons from Sanctioned 
Countries.
Disclosure pursuant to ITRA Section 219
To our knowledge, none of bp’s activities, transactions or dealings are 
required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section 219, with the following 
possible exceptions.
In 2023, payments in relation to tax with an aggregate US dollar equivalent 
value of approximately $27,000 were paid from a bp trust account held with 
Tadvin Co. to Iranian public entities on behalf of BP Iran. No gross revenues 
or net profits are attributable to BP Iran's activities.
In February 2023, we identified that our European Fleet Business had 
issued 10 fuel cards to the embassy and consulate of Iran in both Germany 
and Austria. Fuel cards enable holders to acquire goods and services at bp 
retail sites and at retail sites operated by acceptance partners in Europe 
without payment in cash. Goods and services purchased with fuel cards are 
invoiced on a monthly or bi-monthly basis. As disclosed in the bp Annual 
Report and Form 20-F 2022 , in 2023 the total aggregate invoiced amount 
was approximately $2,700. bp has terminated the cards and related 
accounts.
Material contracts
On 4 April 2016 the district court approved the Consent Decree among BP 
Exploration & Production Inc., BP Corporation North America Inc., BP p.l.c., 
the United States and the states of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi 
and Texas (the Gulf states) which fully and finally resolved any and all 
natural resource damages (NRD) claims of the United States, the Gulf 
states, and their respective natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act (CWA) penalty claims, and certain other claims of the United States and 
the Gulf states. 
Concurrently, the definitive Settlement Agreement that bp entered into with 
the Gulf states (Settlement Agreement) with respect to State claims for 
economic, property and other losses became effective. 
bp has filed the Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement as exhibits 
to its Annual Report and Form 20-F 2020  filed with the SEC. For further 
details of the Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement, see Legal 
proceedings in bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 .
Property, plant and equipment
bp has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate and other tangible 
assets in numerous countries, but no individual property is significant to the 
group as a whole. For more on the significant subsidiaries « of the group at 
31 December 2023  and the group percentage of ordinary share capital see 
Financial statements – Note 37 . For information on significant joint 
ventures « and associates « of the group see Financial statements – Notes 
16 and 17.
Related party transactions
Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and 
associates are summarized in Financial statements – Note 16  and Note 17 . 
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into transactions 
with various organizations with which some of its directors or executive 
officers are associated. Except as described in this report, the group did not 
have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, 
and did not make loans to, related parties in the period commencing 
1 January 202 3 to 16 February 2024.
Corporate governance practices
In the US, bp ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The 
significant differences between bp’s corporate governance practices as a 
UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US 
companies are listed as follows:
Independence
As set out on page 88, bp has adopted separate terms of reference for the 
board and each of its committees as part of its corporate governance 
framework. The terms of reference for the board and each of its 
committees are reviewed annually and were last updated with effect from 1 
December 2021, excluding the audit committee terms of reference which 
were updated on 22 July 2022. The terms of reference reflect the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2018 approach to corporate governance. As 
such, the way in which bp makes determinations of directors' independence 
differs from the NYSE approach.
bp’s corporate governance framework requires that all non-executive 
directors be determined by the board to be ‘independent in character and 
judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement’. The bp board has 
determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are 
independent. In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into 
consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSE’s listing 
standards.
Committees
bp has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in 
purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic US 
companies. For instance, bp has a remuneration (rather than a 
compensation) committee. bp also has an audit committee, which NYSE 
rules require for both US companies and foreign private issuers. These 
committees are composed solely of non-executive directors whom the 
board has determined to be independent, in the manner described above. 
Each committee operates under its own terms of reference together with a 
set of terms applicable to all the committees (see the board committee 
reports on pages 94-132and bp.com/governance). 
Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, bp is 
required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 
10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.06 of the NYSE Listed 
358 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Company Manual. bp’s audit committee complies with these requirements. 
The bp audit committee does not have direct responsibility for the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the independent auditors. 
Instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 by making recommendations to the board on these 
matters for it to put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM. 
One of the NYSE’s additional requirements for the audit committee states 
that at least one member of the audit committee is to have ‘accounting or 
related financial management expertise’. The board determined that Tushar 
Morzaria possesses such expertise and also possesses the financial and 
audit committee experiences set forth in both the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 and SEC rules (see Audit committee report on page 
98). Mr Morzaria is the audit committee financial expert as defined in 
Item 16A of Form 20-F.
Summary of terms of reference for audit committee and 
remuneration committee
The audit committee’s full terms of reference are available on our website 
at bp.com/governance. A summary of the committee’s key responsibilities 
is provided below: 
•Monitor and critically assess bp’s financial statements and financial 
information, including the integrity of the financial reporting and related 
processes, context in which statements are made, compliance with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and financial reporting 
standards, including the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). 
•Assess the going concern assumption and the longer-term viability 
statement as to bp’s ability to continue to operate and meet its liabilities. 
•Review and challenge the application and appropriateness of significant 
accounting policies and financial reporting judgements. 
•Evaluate the risk to quality and effectiveness of the financial reporting 
process and, where requested by the board, advise whether the annual 
report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable. 
•Review the affordability of distributions to shareholders. 
•Oversee the appointment, remuneration, independence and 
performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit 
process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to 
supply non-audit services to bp. 
•Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function, bp’s internal 
financial controls and its systems of internal control and risk 
management. 
•Monitor the principal risks allocated to the committee by the board and 
review the mitigations proposed by management in respect of risks 
associated with bp internal financial controls and reporting 
responsibilities and such emerging risks that may fall within scope.
•Review the systems in place to enable those who work for bp to raise 
concerns about improprieties in financial reporting or other issues, and 
for those matters to be investigated. 
The remuneration committee’s full terms of reference are available on our 
website at bp.com/governance. A summary of the committee’s key 
responsibilities is provided below: 
•Recommend to the board the remuneration principles and policies for 
the executive directors and leadership team while considering 
remuneration and related policies for the employees below the board 
and leadership team. 
•Set and approve the terms of engagement, remuneration, benefits and 
termination of employment for the executive directors, leadership team, 
chief internal auditor and the company secretary in accordance with the 
policy. 
•Prepare the annual remuneration report to shareholders to outline policy 
implementation.
•Approve the principles of any equity plan that requires shareholder 
approval. 
•Ensure termination terms and payments to executive directors and the 
leadership team are appropriate and fair. 
•Receive and consider regular updates on workforce views and 
engagement initiatives related to remuneration, insights and data from 
pay ratios and potential pay gaps as appropriate.
•Maintain appropriate dialogue with shareholders on remuneration 
matters.Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans
The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be given 
the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material 
revisions to those plans. bp complies with UK requirements that are similar 
to the NYSE rules. The board, however, does not explicitly take into 
consideration the NYSE’s detailed definition of what are considered 
‘material revisions’. 
Code of ethics
The company has adopted a code of ethics for its chief executive officer, 
chief financial officer, SVP accounting, reporting and control and SVP 
internal audit whose roles are equivalent to the SEC roles as required by the 
provisions of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules 
issued by the SEC. There have been no waivers from the code of ethics 
relating to any officers. A copy of the code of ethics can be found at 
bp.com/codeofethics.
The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of 
business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees. bp has 
adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, officers and 
members of the board. This was updated and published in January 2023. In 
addition, bp has adopted a code of ethics as described above for the chief 
executive officer, chief financial officer, SVP accounting, reporting and 
control and SVP internal audit as required by the SEC. bp considers that 
these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules 
for US companies. During 2021, the board adopted a diversity policy, which 
requires it to encourage a diverse and inclusive working environment in the 
boardroom, where everyone is accepted, valued and receives fair treatment 
according to their different needs and situations without discrimination or 
prejudice. The policy was reviewed by the board in 2022, and amendments 
were made to reflect regulatory changes and market practice. The updated 
policy was then approved and published in February 2023.
Controls and procedures
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures
The company maintains ‘disclosure controls and procedures’, as such term 
is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), that are designed to ensure that 
information required to be disclosed in reports the company files or 
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and 
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange 
Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated 
and communicated to management, including the company’s group chief 
executive and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely 
decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our 
management, including the group chief executive and chief financial officer, 
recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed 
and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the 
objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Because of 
the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can 
provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud 
within the company, if any, have been detected. Further, in the design and 
evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures our management 
necessarily was required to apply its judgement in evaluating the costs and 
benefits of possible control and procedure design options. Also, we have 
investments in unconsolidated entities. As we do not control these entities, 
our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are 
necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect 
to our consolidated subsidiaries «. Because of the inherent limitations in a 
cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. The company’s disclosure controls and 
procedures have been designed to meet, and management believes that 
they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
The company’s management, with the participation of the company’s group 
chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness 
of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange 
Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this annual report. 
Based on that evaluation, the group chief executive and chief financial 
officer have concluded that the company’s disclosure controls and 
procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 359

Management’s report on internal control over financial 
reporting
Management of bp is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal control over financial reporting. bp’s internal control over 
financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the 
principal executive and financial officers to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of bp’s 
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with 
IFRS.
As of the end of the 2023  fiscal year, management conducted an 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting 
in accordance with the criteria in the UK Financial Reporting Council’s 
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting relating to internal control over financial reporting. 
Based on this assessment, management has determined that bp’s internal 
control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2023  was effective.
Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting excluded TravelCenters of America Inc. (TCA), which 
was acquired on 15 May 2023. TCA’s financial statements constitute 2.1% 
and 1.5% of net and total assets respectively, 2.8% of revenues, and 4% of 
net income of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for 
the year ended 31 December 2023. This exclusion is in accordance with the 
general guidance issued by the SEC that an assessment of a recent 
business combination may be omitted from management’s report on 
internal control over financial reporting in the first year of consolidation.
The company’s internal control over financial reporting includes policies 
and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions 
of assets; provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and the directors of bp; and provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of bp’s assets that could have a 
material effect on our financial statements. bp’s internal control over 
financial reporting as of 31 December 2023  has been audited by Deloitte 
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their 
report appearing on page 163  of bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 .
Changes in internal control over financial reporting
There were no changes in the group’s internal control over financial 
reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that 
have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our 
internal control over financial reporting.
Cyber security
Governance
The board oversees bp’s internal control and risk management framework. 
The board is supported by the safety and sustainability committee which 
oversees cyber security risk and received reports from bp’s chief 
information security officer (CISO) on cyber security incidents at every 
committee meeting in 2023, including information on bp’s response to 
incidents. This allows an ongoing assessment by the committee of the 
effectiveness of bp’s overall cyber security programme. A session is held 
once a year to review bp’s roadmap and progress for addressing cyber 
security risk. Read more in the safety and sustainability committee report 
on page 103.
At management level, assessment and management of material risks from 
cyber security threats is led by bp’s executive vice president of innovation & 
engineering (I&E), a member of bp’s leadership team with deep experience 
in bp’s engineering and operations functions, with support from bp’s CISO, 
who has over 20 years of experience in the information technology industry. 
bp’s digital safety operational risk committee brings together additional 
senior members of bp’s digital leadership team to assist in ensuring that 
cyber security risks across bp are identified, understood, accurately 
quantified and are managed in accordance with bp’s internal controls 
framework.Risk management and strategy
bp has implemented a threat-focused strategy to assess cyber security 
risks and protect against, detect, respond to, and recover from cyber 
attacks. bp maintains internal teams focused on cyber security intelligence 
and emergency response to monitor the external threat landscape and the 
threats to bp’s IT and operational technology infrastructure. bp partners 
with third-party specialists to augment its in-house capabilities as 
necessary. bp has a defined protocol for cyber incident notification based 
on severity and bp’s internal cyber security teams brief the CISO, I&E EVP, 
other senior leadership and relevant board and management committees 
about incidents on an as needed basis.
Cyber security risk management is integrated into bp’s overall risk 
management process. bp’s entities are required to identify, assess and 
report key risks, including cyber security risks, to relevant members of 
senior leadership. bp maintains additional procedures to manage cyber 
security risks related to third-party service providers, including conducting 
information security assessments for certain providers, providing relevant 
trainings for bp employees, and maintaining information security 
requirements for suppliers.
Our business strategy, results of operations and financial condition have 
not been materially affected by risks from cyber security threats, including 
as a result of previously identified cyber security incidents. For more 
information on our cyber security related risks, see Risk Factors ( pages 
77-79 ).
Principal accountant's fees and services
The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the 
engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte 
LLP, to render audit and certain assurance services. The policy provides for 
pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically defined audit, audit 
related, non-audit and other services that are not prohibited by regulatory or 
other professional requirements. Deloitte is engaged for these services 
when its expertise and experience of bp are important. Most of this work is 
of an audit nature. The committee regularly reviews the policy, including in 
2022, when it was updated to remove restrictions on EY following bp's 
announcement on 27 February 2022 of its intention to exit its interests in 
Rosneft and capture additional detail for the processes applicable to 
separately listed bp entities.
Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within the 
following categories: i) audit-related services, such as those required by law 
or where the auditor is best placed to undertake such work on similar 
terms, ii) non-audit services required by law, such as reporting required by a 
regulatory authority, and iii) other services, such as additional assurance or 
updates on applicable law and accounting standards. bp operates a two-
tier system for audit and non-audit services. For audit-related services, the 
audit committee has a pre-approved aggregate level, within which specific 
work may be approved by management. Non-audit services are pre-
approved for management to authorize per individual engagement, but 
above a defined level must be approved by the chair of the audit committee 
or the full committee. The audit committee has delegated to the chair of the 
audit committee authority to approve permitted services provided that any 
decisions are reported to the committee at its next scheduled meeting. Any 
proposed service not included in the approved service list must be 
approved in advance of commencing the engagement by the audit 
committee chair or the full audit committee depending on the level of fee 
payable. 
The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditor each year. 
The audit fees payable to Deloitte are reviewed by the committee in the 
context of other global companies for cost effectiveness. The committee 
keeps under review the scope and results of audit work and the 
independence and objectivity of the auditor. External regulation and bp 
policy requires the auditor to rotate its lead audit partner every five years. 
See Financial statements – Note 36  and Audit committee report on page 98  
for details of fees for services provided by the auditor. 
360 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Additional Directors’ report disclosures
This section of bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023  forms part of the 
Directors’ report. Certain information has been included in the Strategic 
report that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors' 
report, as noted below.
Indemnity provisions
In accordance with bp’s Articles of Association, on appointment each 
director is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law. These 
indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and at the date of 
this report. In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be 
indemnified, the company maintained a directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance policy throughout 2023 . During the year, a review of the terms 
and scope of the policy was undertaken as part of the annual renewal. 
Although their defence costs may be met, neither the company’s indemnity 
nor insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have 
acted fraudulently or dishonestly. Certain subsidiaries « are trustees of the 
group’s pension schemes. Each director of these subsidiaries is granted an 
indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of 
such a subsidiary’s activities as a trustee of the pension scheme, to the 
extent permitted by law. These indemnities were in force throughout the 
financial year and at the date of this report.
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The disclosures in relation to financial risk management objectives and 
policies, including the policy for hedging, are included in How we manage 
risk on pages 73-76 , Liquidity and capital resources on page 340  and 
Financial statements – Notes 29 and 30.
Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash 
flow risk
The disclosures in relation to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk 
and cash flow risk are included in Financial statements – Notes 29 and 30.
Important events since the end of the financial year
Disclosures of the particulars of the important events affecting bp which 
have occurred since the end of the financial year are included in the 
Strategic report as well as in other places in the Directors’ report. 
Likely future developments in the business
An indication of the likely future developments in the business of the 
company is included in the Strategic report.
Research and development
Indications of our activities in the field of research and development are 
provided throughout the Strategic report and the Directors’ report. See also 
pages 16 and 197 for our expenditure on research and development.
Branches
As a global group our interests and activities are held or operated through 
subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements « or associates « established in 
– and subject to the laws and regulations of – many different jurisdictions.
Employees
Disclosures in respect of how the directors have engaged with employees 
and had regard to their interests are included in Stakeholder engagement 
on pages 92-93.
The disclosures concerning policies in relation to the employment of 
disabled persons and employee involvement are included in Sustainability – 
our people on pages 70-72.
Employee share schemes
Certain shares held as a result of participation in some employee share 
plans carry voting rights. Voting rights in respect of such shares are 
exercisable via a nominee. Dividend waivers are in place in respect of 
unallocated shares held in employee share plan trusts.
Suppliers, customers and others
Disclosures in respect of how the directors have engaged with suppliers, 
customers and others in business relationships with the company are 
included in Stakeholder engagement on pages 92-93.Change of control provisions
On 5 October 2015, the United States lodged with the district court in MDL 
2179 a proposed Consent Decree between the United States, the Gulf 
states, BP Exploration & Production Inc., BP Corporation North America Inc. 
and BP p.l.c., to fully and finally resolve any and all natural resource 
damages claims of the United States, the Gulf states and their respective 
natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act penalty claims, and 
certain other claims of the United States and the Gulf states. Concurrently, 
bp entered into a definitive Settlement Agreement with the five Gulf states 
(Settlement Agreement) with respect to state claims for economic, property 
and other losses. On 4 April 2016, the district court approved the Consent 
Decree, at which time the Consent Decree and Settlement Agreement 
became effective. The federal government and the Gulf states may jointly 
elect to accelerate the payments under the Consent Decree in the event of a 
change of control or insolvency of BP p.l.c., and the Gulf states individually 
have similar acceleration rights under the Settlement Agreement. For 
further details of the Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement, see 
Legal proceedings in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 .
Political donations, expenditure and contributions
Disclosures in relation to political donations, expenditure and contributions 
are included on page 72.
Greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and 
energy efficiency
Disclosures in relation to greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption 
and energy efficiency are included in Sustainability on pages 51-52.
Disclosures required under Listing 
Rule 9.8.4R
The information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.4R can be 
located as set out below:
Information required Page
(1) Amount of interest capitalized  197 
(2) – (4) Not applicable
(5), (6) Waiver of director emoluments 128
(7) – (11) Not applicable
(12), (13) Dividend waivers  361 
(14) Not applicable
Cautionary statement
In order to utilize the ‘safe harbor’ provisions of the United States Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the ‘PSLRA’) and the general doctrine 
of cautionary statements, bp is providing the following cautionary statement. 
This document contains certain forecasts, projections and forward-looking 
statements - that is, statements related to future, not past, events and 
circumstances - with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and 
businesses of bp and certain of the plans and objectives of bp with respect to 
these items. These statements may generally, but not always, be identified by 
the use of words such as ‘will’, ‘expects’, ‘is expected to’, ‘aims’, ‘should’, ‘may’, 
‘objective’, ‘is likely to’, ‘intends’, ‘believes’, ‘anticipates’, ‘plans’, ‘we see’ or similar 
expressions. In particular, among other statements, (i) certain statements in the 
Chair’s letter ( pages 4-5 ), Chief executive officer’s letter ( pages 6-7 ),the Strategic 
report (inside cover and pages 1-80 ), Additional disclosures ( pages 335-362 ) and 
Shareholder information ( pages 363-372 ), including but not limited to 
statements under the headings ‘Energy Outlook’, ‘Our strategy in action’, 
‘Consistency with the Paris goals’ ‘Our business model’, ‘Progress against our 
strategy’, ‘Our financial frame’, ‘2024 guidance’ and ‘Our investment process’ and 
including but not limited to statements regarding: plans and expectations 
relating to business, financial performance, results of operations, cash flow, 
capital expenditure, allocation of capital expenditure and bp’s ability to maintain 
a robust cash position; plans and expectations regarding bp’s financial frame, 
working capital, operating cash flow (and its ability to cover capital expenditure 
and shareholder distributions including the dividend and share buybacks), return 
on average capital employed, liquidity, capital discipline, credit rating, future 
shareholder distributions, amount or timing of payments related to divestment 
and other proceeds, net debt, future dividend payments and share buybacks; 
plans and expectations relating to bp’s investment process and capital 
investment, including future capital investment allocation, expected IRR, access 
to capital and the restructuring of certain investments; plans and expectations Additional disclosures
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 361

relating to bp’s intra-group funding and liquidity arrangements; plans and 
expectations relating to bp’s ability to meet contractual obligations; expectations 
regarding inflation, oil and gas prices, price volatility, refining margins and price 
assumptions; plans and expectations relating to risk, including risk management 
processes and climate-related risks; plans and expectations regarding bp’s 
transition growth engines, including plans to increase capital investment in these 
growth engines; plans and expectations regarding bp’s oil and gas business, 
including related investment plans, oil and gas production targets, and 
divestment plans; plans and expectations regarding underlying replacement cost 
profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, ROACE, adjusted 
EBITDA and adjusted EBIDA per share; plans, expectations and projections 
regarding bp’s oil and gas resources and reserves; plans and expectations 
regarding bp’s convenience and mobility business, including earnings, the 
development of EV charging, and the impact of the acquisition of TravelCenters 
of America; bp’s aims related to sustainable aviation fuel; bp’s plans and 
expectations regarding renewable power, including aims to expand renewable 
gas, wind and solar capacity, aims to develop hydrogen production and export, 
green and blue hydrogen, e-fuels, EV charging and power trading and 
expectations related to bp’s wind and solar projects; bp’s 2025 targets and 2030 
aims relating to resilient hydrocarbons (including upstream unit production 
costs, upstream production, bp-operated upstream plant reliability, bp-operated 
refining availability, biofuels production, biogas supply volumes and LNG 
portfolio), convenience and mobility (including customer touchpoints per day, 
strategic convenience sites and electric vehicle charge points) and low carbon 
energy (including net hydrogen production, developed renewables to final 
investment decision and net installed renewables capacity); plans and 
expectations in relation to announced acquisitions and divestments including 
the outcome of any applicable third party approvals and timing of completion; 
bp’s plans and expectations related to the energy transition (including its 
scenario analysis), climate change, sustainability, greenhouse gas emissions, 
water use and the replenishment of fresh water, bp’s resilience across different 
climate scenarios, and bp’s decarbonization and net zero aims and targets, its 
targets related to methane and carbon intensity of bp’s products and the 
transition to a lower carbon economy and energy system; expectations relating 
to the effects of the Russia-Ukraine war including plans and expectations 
regarding impacts on bp; expectations regarding future legislative or regulatory 
action and its impact on bp, including regulatory action related to climate change 
and inflation and bp’s plans regarding compliance with such actions; plans and 
expectations regarding bp’s leadership team, board composition and workforce, 
including targets related to workforce recruitment, incentives and diversity; 
expectations regarding the costs of environmental restoration, remediation and 
abatement programmes; expectations regarding the future value of assets; 
plans and expectations regarding projects, joint ventures, partnerships, 
agreements and memoranda of understanding with governments, commercial 
entities and other third party partners; expectations regarding contingent 
liabilities, legal and trial proceedings, court decisions, potential investigations 
and civil actions by regulators, government entities and/or other entities or 
parties, and the timing and potential impact of such proceedings, settlement 
agreements relating to such proceedings and bp’s intentions in respect thereof; 
plans and expectations regarding relationships with governments, customers, 
partners, suppliers, communities and key stakeholders; expectations regarding 
upstream production, total capital expenditure, depreciation, depletion and 
amortization, divestments and other proceeds, Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments, 
other businesses & corporate underlying annual charge, and the effective tax 
rate and the underlying effective tax rate; expectations that the majority of bp’s 
existing upstream oil and gas properties will start decommissioning within the 
next two decades; expectations regarding fulfillment of existing delivery 
commitments for oil and gas; plans and expectations relating to major project 
start-ups; plans and expectations relating to launchpad; plans and expectations 
regarding bp ventures and its investments; plans and expectations relating to 
bp’s refineries, including Solomon refining availability and net cash margins; 
plans and expectations relating to bp’s research and development spend; plans 
and expectations regarding operations and safety; and (ii) certain statements in 
Corporate governance ( pages 81-104 ) and the Directors’ remuneration report 
(pages 105-132 ) and ‘Other disclosures’ (page 133) with regard to: the 
anticipated future composition of the board of directors and the effects thereof; 
the board’s goals and areas of focus; plans and expectations regarding the 
expected impact of the mergers and acquisitions pipeline and capital 
expenditures (including the impact of bp’s entry in the German offshore wind 
market); plans and expectations relating to the induction and training of new 
directors; plans and expectations regarding the diversity of the board and senior 
management; plans and expectations regarding directors’ and senior 
management’s share ownership and remuneration; plans regarding the 
governance and remuneration processes, including base pay and base salary 
increases and adjustments, performance share plan, various policies, updates to 
certain targets, measures and metrics relevant to remuneration and 
determination of bonuses and share plans, pension allowances and 
contributions, the vesting of shares under employee share plans, benefits and bonuses; plans relating to the societies in which bp operates and to maintain a 
strong reputation globally; and goals, activities and areas of focus of board 
committees, are all forward-looking in nature; plans and expectations regarding 
auditor reappointment and independence. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because 
they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the 
future and are outside the control of bp. 
Actual results or outcomes, including the fair value of bp’s Rosneft shareholding, 
may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, depending on a 
variety of factors, including: the extent and duration of the impact of current 
market conditions including the volatility of oil prices, the effects of bp’s intention 
to exit its shareholding in Rosneft, overall global economic and business 
conditions impacting bp’s business and demand for bp’s products as well as the 
specific factors identified in the discussions accompanying such forward-
looking statements; changes in consumer preferences and societal 
expectations; the pace of development and adoption of alternative energy 
solutions; developments in policy, law, regulation, technology and markets, 
including societal and investor sentiment related to the issue of climate change; 
the receipt of relevant third party and/or regulatory approvals; the timing and 
level of maintenance and/or turnaround activity; the timing and volume of 
refinery additions and outages; the timing of bringing new fields onstream; the 
timing, quantum and nature of certain acquisitions and divestments; future 
levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, including supply growth in 
North America and continued base oil and additive supply shortages; OPEC+ 
quota restrictions; PSA and TSC effects; operational and safety problems; 
potential lapses in product quality; economic and financial market conditions 
generally or in various countries and regions; political stability and economic 
growth in relevant areas of the world; changes in laws and governmental 
regulations and policies, including related to climate change; changes in social 
attitudes and customer preferences; regulatory or legal actions including the 
types of enforcement action pursued and the nature of remedies sought or 
imposed; the actions of prosecutors, regulatory authorities and courts; delays in 
the processes for resolving claims; amounts ultimately payable and timing of 
payments relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill; exchange rate fluctuations; 
development and use of new technology; recruitment and retention of a skilled 
workforce; the success or otherwise of partnering; the actions of competitors, 
trading partners, contractors, subcontractors, creditors, rating agencies and 
others; bp’s access to future credit resources; business disruption and crisis 
management; the impact on bp’s reputation of ethical misconduct and non-
compliance with regulatory obligations; trading losses; major uninsured losses; 
the possibility that international sanctions or other steps taken by competent 
authorities or any other relevant persons may impact bp’s ability to sell its 
interests in Rosneft, or the price for which it could sell such interests; the actions 
of contractors; natural disasters and adverse weather conditions; changes in 
public expectations and other changes to business conditions; wars and acts of 
terrorism; cyber-attacks or sabotage; and other factors discussed elsewhere in 
this report including under Risk factors ( pages 77-79 ). In addition to factors set 
forth elsewhere in this report, those set out above are important factors, 
although not exhaustive, that may cause actual results and developments to 
differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements.
Statements regarding competitive position
Statements referring to bp’s competitive position are based on the 
company’s belief and, in some cases, rely on a range of sources, including 
investment analysts’ reports, independent market studies and bp’s internal 
assessments of the relevant market based on publicly available information 
about the financial results and performance of market participants.
362 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Shareholder information
Share prices and listings 364
Dividends 364
Shareholder taxation information 364
Major shareholders 366
Annual general meeting 367
Memorandum and Articles of Association 367
Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and 
affiliated purchasers 370
Fees and charges payable by ADS holders 371
Fees and payments made by the Depositary to the 
issuer 371
Documents on display 371
Shareholding administration 372
2024 shareholder calendar 372Shareholder information
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 363

Share prices and listings
Markets and market prices
The primary market for the company’s ordinary shares (trading symbol 
‘BP’), 8% cumulative first preference shares (trading symbol ‘BP.A’) and 9% 
cumulative second preference shares (trading symbol ‘BP.B’) is the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE). The company’s ordinary shares are a constituent 
element of the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index. 
In the US, the company’s securities are listed and traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs (trading symbol ‘BP’), for which 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary (the Depositary) and transfer 
agent. The Depositary’s principal office is 383 Madison Avenue, Floor 11, 
New York, NY, 10179, US. Each ADS represents six ordinary shares. ADSs 
are evidenced by American depositary receipts (ADRs), which may be 
issued in either certificated or book entry form. 
The company’s ordinary shares are also traded in the form of a global 
depositary certificate representing the company’s ordinary shares on the 
Frankfurt, Hamburg and Düsseldorf Stock Exchanges. 
On 16 February 2024, 731,514,905 ADSs (equivalent to approximately 
4,389,089,430 ordinary shares or some 25.79 % of the total issued share 
capital, excluding shares held in treasury) were outstanding and were held 
by approximately 62,639 ADS holders. Of these, about 61,911 had 
registered addresses in the US at that date. One of the registered holders of 
ADSs represents approximately 1,369,679 underlying holders.
On 1 6 February 2024, there were approximately 200,279 ordinary 
shareholders. Of these shareholders, around 1,499 had registered 
addresses in the US and held a total of some 3,870,988 ordinary shares. On 
16 February 2024, there were approximately 1,103 preference shareholders. 
Of these shareholders, around 14 had registered addresses in the US and 
held a total of some 2,773 preference shares.
Since a number of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers and 
other nominees, the number of holders in the US may not be representative 
of the number of beneficial holders or their respective country of residence.
Dividends
The company’s current policy is to pay interim dividends on a quarterly 
basis on its ordinary shares.
Our policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars 
and state an equivalent sterling dividend. Dividends on the company's 
ordinary shares will be paid in sterling and on the company's ADSs in US 
dollars. The rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount 
equivalent is the average of the market exchange rates in London over the 
three business days prior to the sterling equivalent announcement date. 
The directors may choose to declare dividends in any currency provided 
that a sterling equivalent is announced. It is not the company’s intention to 
change its current policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US 
dollars.
Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company on 
ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in the consolidated 
Financial statements – Note 10.
A Scrip Dividend Programme (Scrip Programme) was approved by 
shareholders in 2010 and was renewed for a further three years at the 2021 
AGM. It enabled the company's ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to 
elect to receive dividends by way of new fully paid ordinary shares (or ADSs 
in the case of ADS holders) instead of cash. The operation of the Scrip 
Programme is always subject to the directors’ decision to make the Scrip 
Programme offer available in respect of any particular dividend. 
The company announced on 29 October 2019 and as part of all subsequent 
quarterly results announcements made since, that the board had 
suspended the Scrip Programme in respect of those quarterly dividends. 
The company does not expect to offer a scrip election for the foreseeable 
future. Ordinary shareholders and ADS holders (subject to certain 
exceptions) may be able to participate in dividend reinvestment plans. Any 
decisions with respect to future dividends will be made by the board of BP 
p.l.c. following the end of each quarter.Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial 
condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 77 and other 
matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our strategy on 
page 12 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 340 .
The quarterly dividend which is expected to be paid on 28 March 2024 in 
respect of the fourth quarter 2023  is 7.270  cents per ordinary share 
($0.43620  per American Depositary Share (ADS)). The corresponding 
amount in sterling will be announced on 12 March 2024. 
The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the company 
per ADS for the past five years.
Dividends per ADSaMarch June September December Total
2019 UK pence  46.43  48.39  50.09  46.95  191.86 
US cents  61.50  61.50  61.50  61.50  246.00 
2020 UK pence  48.94  50.05  24.26  23.50  146.75 
US cents  63.00  63.00  31.50  31.50  189.00 
2021 UK pence  22.61  22.27  23.72  24.63  92.23 
US cents  31.50  31.50  32.76  32.76  128.52 
2022 UK pence  24.96  26.13  31.01  29.64  111.74 
US cents  32.76  32.76  36.04  36.04  137.60 
2023 UK pence  33.30  31.85  34.39  34.42  133.97 
US cents  39.66  39.66  43.62  43.62  166.56 
aDividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are provided in 
the consolidated Financial statements – Note 10.
There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the 
import or export of capital by, or on the payment of dividends to, non-
resident holders of BP p.l.c. shares, or that materially affect the conduct of 
BP p.l.c’s operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain countries 
and persons subject to UN, US, UK, or EU economic sanctions, to the extent 
these restrictions can be complied with in law.
Shareholder taxation information
This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK taxation 
consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder who holds 
the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes. This section 
does not discuss tax consequences arising under the Medicare contribution 
tax on net investment income or the alternative minimum tax. It also does 
not apply inter alia to members of special classes of holders some of which 
may be subject to other rules, including: tax-exempt entities, life insurance 
companies, dealers in securities, traders in securities that elect a mark-to-
market method of accounting for securities holdings, holders that, actually 
or constructively, hold 10% or more of the company’s shares (as measured 
by voting power or value), holders that hold the shares or ADSs as part of a 
straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction, holders that purchase or 
sell the shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax 
purposes, or holders whose functional currency is not the US dollar. In 
addition, if a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income 
tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner 
and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully 
below.
A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for 
US federal income tax purposes (1) a citizen or resident of the US, (2) a US 
domestic corporation, (3) an estate whose income is subject to US federal 
income taxation regardless of its source, or (4) a trust if a US court can 
exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or 
more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the 
trust.
This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing 
and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, published rulings and 
court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all as currently in effect, as 
well as the income tax convention between the US and the UK that entered 
into force on 31 March 2003 (the Treaty). These laws are subject to change, 
possibly on a retroactive basis. This section further assumes that each 
obligation under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to bp ADSs 
and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
364 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax convention (the 
Estate Tax Convention) and for US federal income tax and UK taxation 
purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of 
the company’s ordinary shares represented by those ADRs. Exchanges of 
ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares generally will not be 
subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation other than stamp duty or 
stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
Investors should consult their own tax advisor regarding the US federal, 
state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of 
ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in 
particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in respect 
of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
Taxation of dividends
UK taxation
Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from 
dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders. 
A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or 
trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not be 
taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company. A shareholder 
who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is subject to UK tax 
on dividends received from the company, including dividends received 
under the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) for ordinary shareholders, that 
are in excess of the annual dividend allowance.
For 2023/24 the dividend allowance is £1,000  which means there is no UK 
tax due on the first £1,000  of dividends received. Dividends above this level 
are subject to tax at 8.75%  for basic tax payers, 33.75%  for higher rate tax 
payers and 39.35%  for additional rate tax payers.
Although the first £1,000  of dividend income is not subject to UK income 
tax, it does not reduce the total income for tax purposes. Dividends within 
the dividend allowance still count towards basic or higher rate bands, and 
may therefore affect the rate of tax paid on dividends received in excess of 
the £1,000  allowance. For instance, if an individual has an annual gross 
salary of £50,000  and also receives a dividend of £12,000  they will be 
subject to the following scenario. The individual's personal allowance and 
the basic rate tax band will be used up by the gross salary. The remaining 
part of the salary and the whole of the dividend will be subject to tax at the 
higher rate, although the dividend allowance will reduce the amount of 
dividend subject to tax. The dividend of £12,000  will be reduced by the 
dividend allowance of £1,000  leaving taxable dividend income of £11,000 . 
The dividend will be taxed at 33.75%  so that the total tax payable on the 
dividends is £3,712 .
How the shareholder pays the tax arising on the dividend income depends 
on the amount of dividend income and salary they receive in the tax year. If 
less than £1,000  they will not need to report anything or pay any tax. If 
between £1,000  and £10,000 , the shareholder can pay what they owe by: 
contacting the HMRC helpline; asking HMRC to change their tax code – the 
tax will be taken from their wages or pension or through completion of the 
‘Dividends’ section of their self-assessment tax return, where one is already 
being filed. If over £10,000  they will be required to file a self-assessment tax 
return and should complete the ‘Dividends’ section with details of the 
amounts received.
US federal income taxation
A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount 
of any dividend paid by the company (including dividends paid but 
reinvested under the Global Invest Direct (GID) Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
for ADS holders) out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits (as 
determined for US federal income tax purposes). Dividends paid to a non-
corporate US holder that constitute qualified dividend income will be 
taxable to the holder at a preferential rate, provided that the holder has a 
holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during 
the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and 
meets other holding period requirements. Dividends paid by the company 
with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified 
dividend income.
For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in income 
when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, in the 
case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend and will not 
be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US 
corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations. US ADS holders should consult their own tax advisor regarding the US tax 
treatment of the dividend fee in respect of dividends. Dividends will 
generally be income from sources outside the US and generally will be 
‘passive category income’ for purposes of computing a US holder’s foreign 
tax credit limitation.
As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK 
withholding tax. Accordingly, the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US 
holder to a foreign tax credit.
The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid 
in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling 
payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling/US dollar rate on 
the date the dividend is distributed, regardless of whether the payment is, in 
fact, converted into US dollars. Generally, any gain or loss resulting from 
currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the pounds 
sterling dividend payment is distributed to the date the payment is 
converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will 
not be eligible for the preferential tax rate on qualified dividend income. The 
gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for 
foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of the company’s earnings and profits, as 
determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return 
of capital to the extent of the US holder’s basis in the ordinary shares or 
ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as described in 
'Taxation of capital gains – US federal income taxation' section below.
In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for passive 
foreign investment companies (PFIC), described below under ‘Taxation of 
capital gains – US federal income taxation’. Distributions made by a PFIC 
do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not eligible for the 
preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
Taxation of capital gains
UK taxation
A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the 
disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is (1) resident for tax 
purposes in the UK at the date of disposal, (2) if he or she has left the UK 
for a period not exceeding five complete tax years between the year of 
departure from and the year of return to the UK and acquired the shares 
before leaving the UK and was resident in the UK in the previous four out of 
seven tax years before the year of departure, (3) a US domestic corporation 
resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or controlled in 
the UK or (4) a citizen of the US that carries on a trade or profession or 
vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or a corporation that carries 
on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK, through a permanent 
establishment, and that has used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or 
ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation of such 
branch, agency or permanent establishment. However, such persons may 
be entitled to a tax credit against their US federal income tax liability for the 
amount of UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains 
(as the case may be) that is paid in respect of such gain.
Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or ADSs 
generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of the 
relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US 
and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the US 
and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction (the US or the UK, as 
the case may be) at any time during the six years immediately preceding 
the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with 
respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of ordinary shares or 
ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of which the holder is 
resident at the time of the disposition but also in the other jurisdiction.
For gains on or after 23 June 2010, the UK Capital Gains Tax rate will be 
dependent on the level of an individual’s taxable income. Where total 
taxable income and gains after all allowable deductions are less than the 
upper limit of the basic rate income tax band of £37,700  (for 2023/24), the 
rate of Capital Gains Tax will be 10% . For gains (and any parts of gains) 
above that limit the rate will be 20% .
From 6 April 2008, entitlement to the annual exemption is based on an 
individual’s circumstances (taking into account domicile status, remittance 
basis of taxation and number of years in the UK). For individuals who are Shareholder information
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 365

entitled to the exemption for 2023/24, this has been set at £6,000. 
Corporation tax on chargeable gains is levied at 25% for companies from 1 
April 2023.
US federal income taxation
A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will 
recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to 
the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realized on the 
disposition and the US holder’s tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the 
ordinary shares or ADSs. Any such capital gain or loss generally will be 
long-term gain or loss, subject to tax at a preferential rate for a non-
corporate US holder, if the US holder’s holding period for such ordinary 
shares or ADSs exceeds one year. The tax basis of shares acquired through 
reinvested dividends under the GID Dividend Reinvestment Plan for ADS 
holders is equal to the fair market value of the stock on the investment 
date. The holding period for shares acquired under the plan begins the day 
after the applicable investment date.
Gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs 
will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax 
credit limitation purposes. The deductibility of capital losses is subject to 
limitations.
We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as stock of a 
passive foreign investment company (PFIC) for US federal income tax 
purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made 
annually and thus is subject to change. If we are treated as a PFIC, unless a 
US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with 
respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, any gain realized on the sale or other 
disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as 
capital gain. Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he or she had 
realized such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary shares or 
ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year 
to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an interest charge in 
respect of the tax attributable to each such year would apply. Certain 
‘excess distributions’ would be similarly treated if we were treated as a 
PFIC.
Additional tax considerations
Scrip Programme
Until the publication of the 2019 third quarter results, the company had an 
optional Scrip Programme, wherein holders of bp ordinary shares or ADSs 
could elect to receive any dividends in the form of new fully paid ordinary 
shares or ADSs of the company instead of cash. Please consult your tax 
advisor for the consequences to you.
UK inheritance tax
The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax. ADSs held by an 
individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention 
in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a 
national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the 
individual’s death or on transfer during the individual’s lifetime unless, 
among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a 
permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of 
independent personal services. In the exceptional case where ADSs are 
subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate 
Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be credited 
against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited against 
tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in the Estate Tax 
Convention.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current 
practice of HM Revenue & Customs in the UK under existing law.
Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and 
remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to any 
matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is payable 
on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs. Neither will an agreement to transfer 
ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the CREST 
system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty reserve 
tax at 0.5%. The charge will arise as soon as there is an agreement for the 
transfer of the shares (or, in the case of a conditional agreement, when the 
condition is fulfilled). The stamp duty reserve tax will apply to agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the agreement is made outside the UK 
between two non-residents. Purchases of ordinary shares outside the 
CREST system are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of £5 per £1,000 
(or part, unless the stamp duty is less than £5, when no stamp duty is 
charged), or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%. Stamp duty and stamp duty 
reserve tax are generally the liability of the purchaser.
A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositary’s nominee will 
give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of £1.50 per £100 (or part) or 
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary 
shares at the time of the transfer. For ADR holders electing to receive ADSs 
instead of cash, after the 2012 first quarter dividend payment, HM 
Revenue & Customs no longer seeks to impose 1.5% stamp duty reserve 
tax on issues of UK shares and securities to non-EU clearance services and 
depositary receipt systems.
Major shareholders
The disclosure of certain major and significant shareholdings in the share 
capital of the company is governed by the Companies Act 2006, the UK 
Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
(DTR) and the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Register of members holding bp ordinary shares as at 
31 December 2023 
Range of holdingsNumber of 
ordinary
shareholdersPercentage of 
total
ordinary 
shareholdersPercentage of 
total ordinary 
share capital
excluding shares
held in treasury
1-200 51,421  25.55  0.01 
201-1,000 65,819  32.70  0.21 
1,001-10,000 73,508  36.52  1.35 
10,001-100,000 9,162  4.55  1.12 
100,001-1,000,000 767  0.38  1.61 
Over 1,000,000a598  0.30  95.70 
Totals 201,275  100.00  100.00 
aIncludes JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. holding 25.93% of the total ordinary issued share capital 
(excluding shares held in treasury) as the approved depositary for ADSs, a breakdown of which is 
shown in the table below.
Register of holders of American depositary shares (ADSs) as at 
31 December 2023a
Range of holdingsNumber of
ADS holdersPercentage of
 total ADS holdersPercentage of 
total ADSs
1-200 38,097  59.62  0.27 
201-1,000 16,827  26.34  1.07 
1,001-10,000 8,640  13.52  2.95 
10,001-100,000 324  0.51  0.71 
100,001-1,000,000 5  0.01  0.11 
Over 1,000,000b2  0.00  94.88 
Totals 63,895  100.00  100.00 
aOne ADS represents six 25 cent ordinary shares.
bOne holder of ADSs represents 1,355,412 approx. underlying shareholders.
As at 31 December 2023 there were also 1,106 preference shareholders. 
Preference shareholders represented 0.49% and ordinary shareholders 
represented 99.51% of the total issued nominal share capital of the 
company (excluding shares held in treasury) as at that date.
As at 16 February 2024, the total preference shares in issue comprised only 
0.50% of the company’s total issued nominal share capital (excluding 
shares held in treasury), the rest being ordinary shares.
Substantial shareholders
The following table shows holdings of 3% or more voting rights in ordinary 
shares of 25 cents in BP p.l.c. as per the most recent notification of each 
respective holder to bp under DTR 5. The percentage of voting rights 
detailed below was calculated as at the date of the relevant disclosures.
366 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

As at 31 December 2023 As at 16 February 2024
Number of voting 
rightsPercentage 
of capitalNumber of voting 
rightsPercentage 
of capital
BlackRock, Inc.  1,504,412,502  7.37  1,504,412,502  7.37 
Norges Bank  545,382,375  3.02  545,382,375  3.02 
There are no current disclosable interests in holdings of 3% or more voting 
rights in 8% cumulative first preference shares of £1 each and 9% 
cumulative second preference shares of £1 each.
Largest registered shareholders
Under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 bp is aware of the following 
interests as at 16 February 2024 .
Ordinary shares of $0.25 in BP p.l.c.:
HolderHolding of
ordinary sharesPercentage of ordinary 
share capital excluding 
shares held in treasury
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., 
depositary for ADSs, through its 
nominee Guaranty Nominees 
Limited  4,389,089,431  25.79 
BlackRock, Inc.  1,584,721,078  9.31 
The Vanguard Group, Inc  777,280,749  4.57 
Norges Bank  584,175,750  3.43 
8% cumulative first preference shares of £1 each in BP p.l.c.:
HolderHolding of 8%
cumulative first
preference sharesPercentage
of class
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited  1,378,892  19.06 
Interactive Investor Share Dealing 
Services  1,009,513  13.96 
Barclays, Plc.  658,957  9.11 
Halifax Share Dealing Services  547,821  7.57 
Canaccord Genuity Group Inc.  544,494  7.53 
AJ Bell Securities, Ltd.  492,668  6.81 
9% cumulative second preference shares of £1 each in BP p.l.c.:
HolderHolding of 9%
cumulative second
preference sharesPercentage
of class
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited  884,655  16.16 
Redmayne-Bentley LLP  564,500  10.31 
Interactive Investor Share Dealing 
Services 498,946  9.12 
AJ Bell Securities, Ltd.  460,885  8.42 
Canaccord Genuity Group Inc.  351,605  6.42 
Safra Group  347,500  6.35 
Halifax Share Dealing Services  292,161  5.34 
The company’s major shareholders’ voting rights may differ to their total 
interest and can be found under the substantial shareholders heading 
above where voting rights are over 3%.
Annual general meeting (AGM)
The 2024  AGM is scheduled to be held on Thursday 25 April 2024 at 
11:00am BST. A separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to 
shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of business to be 
considered at the meeting.
All resolutions for which notice has been given will be decided on a poll. 
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as 
auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included in the Notice of 
bp Annual General Meeting 2024 .Memorandum and Articles of Association
The following summarizes certain provisions of the company’s 
Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law. This 
summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act 
2006 (the Act) and the company’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association. The Memorandum and Articles of Association are available 
online at bp.com/usefuldocs.
The company’s Articles of Association may be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. At the AGM held on 21 
May 2018 shareholders voted to adopt new Articles of Association to 
reflect developments in market practice and to provide clarification and 
additional flexibility where necessary or appropriate.
Objects and purposes
BP p.l.c. is a public company limited by shares and registered in England 
and Wales with the registered number 102498. The provisions regulating 
the operations of the company, known as its ‘objects’, were historically 
stated in a company’s memorandum. The Act abolished the need to have 
object provisions and so at the AGM held on 15 April 2010 shareholders 
approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other provisions 
of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated as forming part of 
the company’s Articles of Association.
Directors and secretary
The business and affairs of the company shall be managed by the 
directors. The company’s Articles of Association provide that any person 
may be appointed by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a 
general meeting either as a replacement for another director or as an 
additional director. Any person appointed by the directors will hold office 
only until the next general meeting, notice of which is first given after their 
appointment and will then be eligible for re-election by the shareholders. A 
director may be removed by the company as provided for by applicable law 
and shall vacate office in certain circumstances as set out in the Articles of 
Association. In addition, the company may, by special resolution, remove a 
director before the expiration of his/her period of office and, subject to the 
Articles of Association, may by ordinary resolution appoint another person 
to be a director instead. There is no requirement for a director to retire on 
reaching any age.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director voting 
in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director has a 
material interest other than by virtue of such director’s interest in shares in 
the company. However, in the absence of some other material interest not 
indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum 
for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following 
matters:
•The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent or 
obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the company 
or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
•The giving of security or indemnity to a third party with respect to any 
debt or obligation of the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings 
for which the director has assumed responsibility.
•Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the 
underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any 
security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company or any of 
its subsidiary undertakings.
•Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director is 
interested, directly or indirectly (whether as an officer or shareholder or 
otherwise) provided that the director and persons connected with such 
director are not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest 
in the shares of such company.
•Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any insurance 
policy under which the director may benefit.
•Any proposal concerning the giving to the director of any other 
indemnity which is on substantially the same terms as indemnities given 
or to be given to all of the other directors or to the funding by the 
company of his expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by 
the company of anything to enable the director to avoid incurring such 
expenditure where all other directors have been given or are to be given 
substantially the same arrangements.
•Any proposal concerning an arrangement for the benefit of the 
employees and directors or former employees and former directors of Shareholder information
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 367

the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including but without 
being limited to a retirement benefits scheme and an employees’ share 
scheme, which does not accord to any director any privilege or 
advantage not generally accorded to the employees or former 
employees to whom the arrangement relates.
The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested in a 
contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature of 
the director’s interest at a meeting of the directors of the company. The 
definition of ‘interest’ includes the interests of spouses, children, companies 
and trusts. The Act also requires that a director must avoid a situation 
where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that 
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the company’s interests. The Act 
allows directors of public companies to authorize such conflicts where 
appropriate, if a company’s Articles of Association so permit. The 
company’s Articles of Association permit the authorization of such 
conflicts. The directors may exercise all the powers of the company to 
borrow money, except that the amount remaining undischarged of all 
moneys borrowed by the company shall not, without approval of the 
shareholders, exceed two times  the amount paid up on the share capital 
plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and revenue reserves of the 
company and its subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the UK. Variation 
of the borrowing power of the board may only be affected by amending the 
Articles of Association.
Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the 
aggregate by resolution of the shareholders. Remuneration of executive 
directors is determined by the remuneration committee. This committee is 
made up of non-executive directors only. There is no requirement of share 
ownership for a director’s qualification.
The Articles of Association provide entitlement to the directors’ pensions 
and death and disability benefits to the directors’ relations and dependants 
respectively.
The circumstances in which a director’s office will automatically terminate 
include, amongst others: when a director ceases to hold an executive office 
of the company and the directors resolve that they should cease to be a 
director; if a medical practitioner provides an opinion that a director has 
become incapable of acting as a director and may remain so incapable for 
more than a further three months and the directors resolve that they should 
cease to be a director; and if all of the other directors vote in favour of a 
resolution stating that the person should cease to be a director.
The company secretary has express powers to delegate any of the powers 
or discretions conferred on him or her.
Dividend rights; other rights to share in company profits; 
capital calls
Shareholders of the company may, by resolution, declare dividends but no 
such dividend may be declared in excess of the amount recommended by 
the directors. The directors may also pay interim dividends without 
obtaining shareholder approval. No dividend may be paid other than out of 
profits available for distribution, as determined under IFRS and the Act. 
Dividends on ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends 
on bp preference shares. Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 10 years  
from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and reverts 
to bp. If the company exercises its right to forfeit shares and sells shares 
belonging to an untraced shareholder then any entitlement to claim 
dividends or other monies unclaimed in respect of those shares will be for a 
period of 12  months  after the sale. The company may take such steps as 
the directors decide are appropriate in the circumstances to trace the 
member entitled and the sale may be made at such time and on such terms 
as the directors may decide.
The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any currency 
provided that a sterling equivalent is announced. It is not the company’s 
intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in US dollars. At 
the company’s AGM held on 15 April 2010, shareholders approved the 
introduction of a Scrip Dividend Programme (Scrip Programme) and to 
include provisions in the Articles of Association to enable the company to 
operate the Scrip Programme. The Scrip Programme was renewed at the 
company’s AGM held on 12 May 2021 for a further three years . The Scrip 
Programme enables ordinary shareholders and bp ADS holders to elect to 
receive new fully paid ordinary shares (or bp ADSs in the case of bp ADS 
holders) instead of cash. The operation of the Scrip Programme is always subject to the directors’ decision to make the scrip offer available in respect 
of any particular dividend. Should the directors decide not to offer the scrip 
in respect of any particular dividend, cash will automatically be paid instead. 
The directors may determine in relation to any scrip dividend plan or 
programme how the costs of the programme will be met, the minimum 
number of ordinary shares required in order to be able to participate in the 
programme and any arrangements to deal with legal and practical 
difficulties in any particular territory.
Apart from shareholders’ rights to share in bp’s profits by dividend (if any is 
declared or announced), the Articles of Association provide that the 
directors may set aside:
•A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make up 
any deficit of cumulative dividend on the bp preference shares.
•A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall be 
applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company may 
properly be applied. This may include capitalization of such sum, 
pursuant to an ordinary shareholders’ resolution, and distribution to 
shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the 
ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for 
allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the 
manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, 
provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid off. 
All shares are fully paid.
Share transfers and share certificates
The directors may permit transfers to be effected other than by an 
instrument in writing. Share certificates will not be required to be issued by 
the company if they are not required by law. 
The company may charge an administrative fee in the event that a 
shareholder wishes to replace two or more certificates representing shares 
with a single certificate or wishes to surrender a single certificate and 
replace it with two or more certificates. All certificates are sent at the 
member’s risk.
Voting rights
The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on 
resolutions at a shareholders’ meeting will be decided on a poll other than 
resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show of 
hands. If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or 
by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for every 
£5 in nominal amount of bp preference shares held. If voting is on a show 
of hands, each shareholder who is present at the meeting in person or 
whose duly appointed proxy is present in person will have one vote , 
regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend or 
vote at a shareholders’ meeting and how many votes such persons may 
cast, the company may specify in the notice of the meeting a time, not 
more than 48 hours  before the time of the meeting, by which a person who 
holds shares in registered form must be entered on the company’s register 
of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting or to 
appoint a proxy to do so.
Holders on record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a 
beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf 
at any shareholders’ meeting, provided that a duly completed proxy form is 
received not less than 48 hours  (or such shorter time as the directors may 
determine) before the time of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, where 
the poll is to be taken after the date of the meeting, not less than 24 hours  
(or such shorter time as the directors may determine) before the time of the 
poll.
Record holders of bp ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and vote at 
any shareholders’ meeting of the company by the appointment by the 
approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., of them as proxies in 
respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs. Each such proxy 
may also appoint a proxy. Alternatively, holders of bp ADSs are entitled to 
vote by supplying their voting instructions to the Depositary, who will vote 
368 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with their 
instructions.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Corporations who are members of the company may appoint one or more 
persons to act as their representative or representatives at any 
shareholders’ meeting provided that the company may require a corporate 
representative to produce a certified copy of the resolution appointing them 
before they are permitted to exercise their powers.
Matters are transacted at shareholders’ meetings by the proposing and 
passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or special.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the 
votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum. A special resolution 
requires the affirmative vote of not less than three quarters of the votes 
cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum. Any AGM requires 21 clear 
days’ notice. The notice period for any other general meeting is 14 clear 
days subject to the company obtaining annual shareholder approval, failing 
which, a 21 clear day notice period will apply.
Liquidation rights; redemption provisions
In the event of a liquidation of bp, after payment of all liabilities and 
applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of 
secured creditors, the holders of bp preference shares would be entitled to 
the sum of (1) the capital paid up on such shares plus, (2) accrued and 
unpaid dividends and (3) a premium equal to the higher of (a) 10% of the 
capital paid up on the bp preference shares and (b) the excess of the 
average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the 
previous six months. The remaining assets (if any) would be divided pro 
rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders 
of any class of shares, bp may issue any share with such preferred, 
deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions as the 
shareholders by resolution determine (or, in the absence of any such 
resolutions, by determination of the directors), and may issue shares that 
are to be or may be redeemed.
Variation of rights
The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent 
in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption of 
a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the 
shares of that class. At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of 
the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting 
apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting to change the 
rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of the shares of 
that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to the ordinary 
shares is one third or more of the shares of that class.
Shareholders’ meetings and notices
Shareholders must provide bp with a postal or electronic address in the UK 
to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders’ meetings. Holders of bp 
ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the deposit 
agreement relating to bp ADSs. The substance and timing of notices are 
described above under the heading Voting rights.
Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held once every year, 
within each six-month period beginning with the day following the 
company’s accounting reference date. All general meetings shall be held at 
a time and place determined by the directors. If any shareholders’ meeting 
is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the 
adjourned meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including 
electronically. Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the 
meeting by authorized officers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of 
those attending.
The directors have power to convene a general meeting which is a hybrid 
meeting, that is to provide facilities for shareholders to attend a meeting 
which is being held at a physical place by electronic means as well (but not 
to convene a purely electronic meeting).
The provisions of the Articles of Association in relation to satellite meetings 
permit facilities being provided by electronic means to allow those persons 
at each place to participate in the meeting.Limitations on voting and shareholding
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the 
company’s Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or 
foreign owners to hold or vote bp ordinary or preference shares in the 
company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the 
shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons 
subject to EU economic sanctions or those sanctions adopted by the UK 
government which implement resolutions of the Security Council of the 
United Nations.
Disclosure of interests in shares
The Act permits a public company to give notice to any person whom the 
company believes to be or, at any time during the three years prior to the 
issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares requiring 
them to disclose certain information with respect to those interests. Failure 
to supply the information required may lead to disenfranchisement of the 
relevant shares and a prohibition on their transfer and receipt of dividends 
and other payments in respect of those shares and any new shares in the 
company issued in respect of those shares. In this context the term 
‘interest’ is widely defined and will generally include an interest of any kind 
whatsoever in voting shares, including any interest of a holder of bp ADSs.
Called-up share capital
Details of the allotted, called-up and fully-paid share capital at 31 December 
2023 are set out in Financial statements – Note 31. In accordance with 
institutional investor guidelines, the company deems it appropriate to grant 
authority to the directors to allot shares and other securities and to disapply 
pre-emption rights by way of shareholders' resolutions at each AGM in 
place of authority granted by virtue of the company's Articles of 
Association. At the AGM on 27 April 2023, authorization was given to the 
directors to allot shares in the company and to grant rights to subscribe for, 
or to convert any security into, shares in the company up to an aggregate 
nominal amount as set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 . 
These authorities were given for the period until the next AGM in 2024 or 27 
July 2024, whichever is the earlier. These authorities are renewed annually 
at the AGM.
Company records and service of notice
In relation to notices not covered by the Act, the reference to notice by 
advertisement in a national newspaper also includes advertisements via 
other means such as a public announcement.Shareholder information
« See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 369

Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers
During the 2023 financial year the company repurchased 1,262,982,632 ordinary shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each for a total consideration of 
$7,917,779,459 (including transaction costs), for the purpose of reducing the issued share capital of the company in order to return capital to shareholders 
and to offset the expected dilution from the vesting of awards under employee share schemes. The shares repurchased in 2023 represented 7.35% of the 
company’s issued share capital, excluding shares held in treasury, on 31 December 2023. Of the shares repurchased in 2023, shares purchased under the 
2022 AGM authority represented 3.57%, and shares purchased under the 2023 AGM authority represented 3.78%, of bp’s issued share capital, excluding 
shares held in treasury, on 31 December 2023. A further 155,997,926 ordinary shares were repurchased between the end of the financial year and 16 
February 2024 at a cost of $921,854,905 (including transaction costs) representing 0.91% of the company’s issued share capital, excluding shares held in 
treasury, on 31 December 2023. All ordinary shares repurchased in 2023 and in 2024 up to 16 February under the share buyback programmes were 
cancelled.
Authorization for the company to make market purchases (as defined in section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of ordinary shares with a nominal 
value of $0.25 each in the company was renewed at the company’s 2023 AGM covering the period until the date of the company’s 2024 AGM or 27 July 
2024, whichever is earlier. The maximum number of ordinary shares to be purchased under this authority will not exceed 1,805,104,334 ordinary shares. 
The shares purchased will be cancelled.
The following table provides details of ordinary share purchases made (1) under the share buyback programmes and (2) by the Employee Share Ownership 
Plans (ESOPs) and other purchases of ordinary shares and ADSs made to satisfy the requirements of certain employee share-based payment plans.
Total number of 
shares 
purchasedaAverage price
paid per share
$Number of 
shares 
purchased by 
ESOPs or for 
certain employee 
share-based 
plansbNumber of shares 
purchased under 
buyback 
programmescMaximum 
approximate 
dollar value of 
shares yet to 
be purchased 
under the 
programmes 
$ million
2023
January 05 - January 31 68,903,875 5.90 68,903,875 N/A
February 01 - February 28 102,718,280 6.59 102,718,280 N/A
March 01 - March 31 213,867,501 6.38 213,867,501 N/A
April 03 - April 28 141,850,648 6.66 141,850,648 N/A
May 02 - May 31 87,193,292 6.16 87,193,292 N/A
June 01 - June 30 100,436,661 5.88 100,436,661 N/A
July 03 - July 31 145,630,746 6.04 145,630,746 N/A
August 01 - August 31 83,873,967 6.13 83,873,967 N/A
September 01 - September 29 101,341,955 6.45 101,341,955 N/A
October 02 - October 31 91,937,237 6.51 91,937,237 N/A
November 02 - November 30 90,722,912 6.00 90,722,912 N/A
December 01 - December 29 59,193,301 5.97 24,687,743 34,505,558 N/A
2024
January 02 - January 31 113,923,673 5.87 7,312,257 106,611,416 N/A
February 02 - February 16 49,386,510 6.02 49,386,510 N/A
aAll share purchases were of ordinary shares of $0.25 each and/or ADSs (each representing six ordinary shares) and were on/open market transactions.
bTransactions represent the purchases of ordinary shares and ADSs made to satisfy requirements of certain employee share-based payment plans.
cShare repurchases from 1 January to 3 February 2023 were made under a share buyback programme announced on 1 November 2022 for a period up to and including 3 February 2023. The company 
announced two programmes in one announcement on 7 February 2023. One covered a period up to and including 28 April 2023 and the other, relating to employee share schemes, was for a period up to 
and including 30 September 2023. On 2 May 2023 the company announced a programme covering a period up to and including 28 July 2023. On 1 August 2023 the company announced a programme 
covering a period up to and including 27 October 2023. On 31 October 2023 the company announced a programme covering a period up to and including 2 February 2024. On 6 February 2024 the 
company announced a programme covering a period up to and including 3 May 2024.
370 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Fees and charges payable by ADS holders
The Depositary collects fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of 
withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them. The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the 
amounts distributed or by selling a portion of the distributable property to pay the fees.
The charges of the Depositary payable by investors are as follows:
Type of service Depositary actions Fee
Depositing or substituting the underlying 
sharesIssuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including 
deposits and issuances in respect of:
•Share distributions, stock splits, rights, merger.
•Exchange of securities or other transactions or event
or other distribution affecting the ADSs or deposited 
securities.$5.00 per 100 ADSs (or portion thereof) evidenced 
by the new ADSs delivered.
Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being an amount 
equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs 
that would have been charged as a result of the deposit 
of such securities.$5.00 per 100 ADSs (or portion thereof).
Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of 
deposited securities.$5.00 for each 100 ADSs (or portion thereof) 
evidenced by the ADSs surrendered.
Expenses of the Depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection 
with:
•Stock transfer or other taxes and governmental
charges.
•Delivery by cable, telex, electronic and facsimile
transmission.
•Transfer or registration fees, if applicable, for the
registration of transfers of underlying shares.
•Expenses of the Depositary in connection with the 
conversion of foreign currency into US dollars (which
are paid out of such foreign currency).Expenses payable are subject to agreement 
between the company and the Depositary by 
billing holders or by deducting charges from one 
or more cash dividends or other cash 
distributions.
Dividend fees ADS holders who receive a cash dividend are charged a 
fee which bp uses to offset the costs associated with 
administering the ADS programme.The Deposit Agreement provides that a fee of 
$0.05 or less per ADS can be charged. The current 
fee is $0.02 per bp ADS per calendar year 
(equivalent to $0.005 per bp ADS per quarter per 
cash distribution).
Global Invest Direct (GID) Plan New investors and existing ADS holders can buy, sell or 
reinvest dividends into further bp ADSs by enrolling in bp’s 
GID Plan, sponsored and administered by the Depositary.Cost per transaction is $2.00 for recurring, $2.00 
for one-time automatic investments, and $5.00 
for investment made by check. Dividend 
reinvestment is 5% of the dividend amount up to a 
maximum of $5.00. Purchase trading 
commission is $0.12 per share. 
Fees and payments made by the 
Depositary to the issuer
The Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses related 
to the company’s ADS programme and incurred by the company in 
connection with the ADS programme arising during the year ended 31 
December 2023. The Depositary reimbursed to the company, or paid 
amounts on the company’s behalf to third parties, or waived its fees and 
expenses, of $16,165,200.95 for the year ended 31 December 2023.
The table below sets out the types of expenses that the Depositary has 
agreed to reimburse and the fees it has agreed to waive for standard costs 
associated with the administration of the ADS programme relating to the 
year ended 31 December 2023.
Category of expense reimbursed,
waived or paid directly to third partiesAmount reimbursed, waived or paid 
directly to third parties for the year 
ended 31 December 2023
Fees for delivery and surrender of bp 
ADSs 1,763,093.64 
Dividend feesa14,400,550.21 
Waived fees 1,557.10 
Total 16,165,200.95 
a Dividend fees are charged to ADS holders who receive a cash distribution, which bp uses to offset 
the costs associated with administering the ADS programme.Under certain circumstances, including removal of the Depositary or 
termination of the ADS programme by the company, the company is 
required to repay the Depositary certain amounts reimbursed and/or 
expenses paid to or on behalf of the company during the 12-month period 
prior to notice of removal or termination.
Documents on display
The bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023  is available online at bp.com/
annualreport. To obtain a hard copy of bp’s complete audited financial 
statements, free of charge, UK based shareholders should contact bp 
Distribution Services by calling +44 (0) 800 037 2172 or by emailing 
bpdistributionservices@bp.com. If based in the US or Canada shareholders 
should contact Issuer Direct by calling +1 888 301 2505 or by emailing 
bpreports@issuerdirect.com.
The company is subject to the information requirements of the US 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers. In 
accordance with these requirements, the company files its Annual Report 
and Form 20-F  and other related documents with the SEC. The SEC 
maintains an internet site at sec.gov that contains reports and other 
information regarding issuers, including bp, that file electronically with the 
SEC. bp's SEC filings are also available at bp.com/sec. bp discloses in this 
report (see Corporate governance practices (Form 20-F Item 16G) on page 
358) significant ways (if any) in which its corporate governance practices
differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing 
standards.Shareholder information
« See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 371

Shareholding administration
If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, such as 
change of address, change of ownership, dividend payment options or to 
change the way you receive your company documents (such as the bp 
Annual Report and Form 20-F and Notice of bp Annual General Meeting ) 
please contact the bp Registrar or the bp ADS Depositary.
Holders of American Depositary Receipts may request to inspect the books 
of the Depositary and the listing of receipt holders by contacting the bp ADS 
Depositary.
Ordinary and preference shareholders
The bp Registrar, Link Group, Central Square,
29 Wellington Street,
Leeds, LS1 4DL
Freephone in the UK 0800 701107
From outside the UK +44 (0)371 277 1014
bp share centre mybpshares.com
ADS holders
bp Shareowner Services
PO Box 64504, St Paul, MN 55164-0504, US
Toll-free in the US +1 877 638 5672
From outside the US +1 651 306 4383
2024 shareholder calendara 
28 Mar 2024 Fourth quarter interim dividend payment for 2023 
25 Apr 2024 Annual general meeting 
07 May 2024 First quarter results announced 
17 May 2024 Record date (to be eligible for the first quarter interim 
dividend)
28 Jun 2024 First quarter interim dividend payment for 2024
28 Jun 2024 8% and 9% preference shares record date
30 Jul 2024 Second quarter results announced
31 Jul 2024 8% and 9% preference shares dividend payment
09 Aug 2024 Record date (to be eligible for the second quarter interim 
dividend)
20 Sep 2024 Second quarter interim dividend payment for 2024
29 Oct 2024 Third quarter results announced
08 Nov 2024 Record date (to be eligible for the third quarter interim 
dividend)
20 Dec 2024 Third quarter interim dividend payment for 2024
aAll future dates are provisional and may be subject to change. For the full calendar see bp.com/
financialcalendar.
372 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Glossary
Abbreviations
ADR
American deposi tary receipt.
ADS
American deposi tary share. 1  ADS =  6 ordin ary shar es.
Barrel (bbl)
159 litres, 42 US gall ons.
bcf
Billion cubic feet.
bcfe
Billion cubic feet equivale nt.
boe
Barre ls of o il equivale nt.
EJ/yr
Exajoules per y ear. 
EVP
Executive vi ce p resident.
FPSO
Floating product ion, storage  and offloading.
GAAP
Generally accep ted accounting practice.
Gas
Natural gas .
gCO 2e/MJ
Gram s of carbon dioxi de equivale nt per megajoule of energy.
GHG
Greenhou se gas.
GRI
Glob al Re porting Initiative.
GtCO2
Gigatonnes of c arbon dioxi de.
GW
Gigaw att.
GWh
Gigaw att hour.
HSSE
Health, safety, security and environment.
IFRS
Internatio nal Finan cial Reporting Stan dards.
kb/d
Thousand b arrels per day.
KPIs
Key p erformance indicators.
kt
Thousand to nnes.
LNG
Liquefied nat ural gas .
LPG
Liquefied p etroleum gas.
mb/d
Thousand b arrels per day.Mbbl
Million barrels.
mboe/d
Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day.
mmb/d
Million barrels per day.
mmboe/d
Million barrels of oil equivalent per day.
mmBtu
Million British thermal units.
mmcf/d
Million cubic feet per day.
Mt
Million tonnes.
MtCO 2e
Million tonnes of CO 2 equiv alent.
Mtpa
Million tonnes per annum.
MW
Megawatt.
MWe
Megawatt electrical.
MWp
Megawatt peak.
NGLs
Natural gas liquids.
PSA
Production-sharing agreement.
PTA
Purified terephthalic acid.
RC
Replacement cost.
SEC
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
TWh
Terawatt hour.
SVP
Senior vice president.
scfm
Standard cubi c feet per minute
Definitions
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the definitions for the following 
glossary terms are given below.
Non-IFRS measures are sometimes referred to as alternative performance 
measures. 
CA100+ resolution glossary
CA100+ resolution 
The CA100+ resolution means the special resolution requisitioned by 
Climate Action 100+ and passed at bp’s 2019 Annual General Meeting, the 
text of which is set out below.
« See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 373

Special resolution: Climate Action 100+ shareholder resolution on 
climate change disclosures
That in order to promote the long-term success of the company, given the 
recognized risks and opportunities associated with climate change, we as 
shareholders direct the company to include in its strategic report and/or 
other corporate reports, as appropriate, for the year ending 2019 onwards, a 
description of its strategy which the board considers, in good faith, to be 
consistent with the goals of Articles 2.1(a)(1) and 4.1(2) of the Paris 
Agreement (3) (the Paris goals), as well as:
(1)Capital expenditure: how the company evaluates the consistency of 
each new material capex investment, including in the exploration, 
acquisition or development of oil and gas resources and reserves and 
other energy sources and technologies, with (a) the Paris goals and 
separately (b) a range of other outcomes relevant to its strategy.
(2) Metrics and targets: the company’s principal metrics and relevant 
targets or goals over the short, medium and/or long term, consistent 
with the Paris goals, together with disclosure of:
a. The anticipated levels of investment in (i) oil and gas resources and 
reserves; and (ii) other energy sources and technologies.
b. The company’s targets to promote reductions in its operational 
greenhouse gas emissions, to be reviewed in line with changing 
protocols and other relevant factors. 
c. The estimated carbon intensity of the company’s energy products 
and progress on carbon intensity over time.
d. Any linkage between the above targets and executive remuneration. 
(3) Progress reporting: an annual review of progress against (1) and (2) 
above.
Such disclosure and reporting to include the criteria and summaries of the 
methodology and core assumptions used, and to omit commercially 
confidential or competitively sensitive information and be prepared at 
reasonable cost; and provided that nothing in this resolution shall limit the 
company’s powers to set and vary its strategy, or associated targets or 
metrics, or to take any action which it believes in good faith, would best 
promote the long-term success of the company.
The Paris goals 
(1) Article 2.1(a) of the Paris Agreement states the goal of ‘Holding the 
increase in the global average temperature to well-below-2°C above pre-
industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase 
to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, recognizing that this would 
significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change’.
(2) Article 4.1 of the Paris Agreement: In order to achieve the long-term 
temperature goal set out in Article 2, parties aim to reach global peaking 
of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, recognizing that 
peaking will take longer for developing country parties, and to undertake 
rapid reductions thereafter in accordance with best available science, 
so as to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half 
of this century, on the basis of equity, and in the context of sustainable 
development and efforts to eradicate poverty. 
(3) U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of Parties, 
Twenty-First Session, Adoption of the Paris Agreement, U.N. Doc. 
FCCC/CP/2015/L.9/Rev.1 (Dec. 12, 2015).
New material capex investment
For the purposes of the 2023 evaluation discussed on pages 30-34, ‘new 
material capex investment’ means a decision taken by the resource 
commitment meeting (RCM) in 2023 to incur inorganic or organic 
investments greater than $250 million that relate to a new project or asset, 
extending an existing project or asset, or acquiring or increasing a share in 
a project, asset or entity.
There were nine investments that met the above criteria in 2023. 
Material capex evaluation: Paris-consistency quantitative tests.
For the purposes of evaluating material capex investments for consistency 
with the Paris goals, two quantitative tests were applied, see page 33.Operational carbon intensity  (CI)
The annual average operational GHG emissions (TeCO 2e/unit), divided 
by the relevant unit of output: 
•Per thousand barrels of oil equivalent in upstream.
•Per utilized equivalent distillation capacity in refining.
•per thousand tonnes of petrochemicals production.
Net zero aims and ambition glossary
Average carbon intensity of sold energy products
The rate of GHG emissions per unit of energy delivered (in grams CO 2e/MJ) 
estimated in respect of sold energy products «. GHG emissions are 
estimated on a lifecycle basis covering use, production, and distribution of 
sold energy products.
Emissions from the carbon in our upstream oil and gas 
production
Estimated CO 2 emissions from the combustion of upstream production of 
crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs) based on bp’s net 
share of production, excluding bp’s share of Rosneft production and 
assuming that all produced volumes undergo full stoichiometric 
combustion to CO 2. 
Energy product
For the purposes of our 2023 disclosures relating to our aim 3, we consider 
an energy product to be one that is generally used to satisfy an energy 
demand. In the case of fuels, to burn them to release their calorific content, 
and in the case of electricity to provide work or heat. For further information 
on products included in bp’s 2023 aim 3 reporting see the basis of reporting 
bp.com/basisofreporting .
Methane intensity  
Methane intensity refers to the amount of methane emissions from bp’s 
operated upstream oil and gas assets as a percentage of the total gas that 
goes to market from those operations. Our methodology is aligned with the 
Oil and Gas Climate Initiative’s (OGCI).
Net zero
References to global net zero in the phrase, 'to help the world get to net 
zero', means achieving '...a balance between anthropogenic emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases...on the basis of 
equity, and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to 
eradicate poverty', as set out in Article 4(1) of the Paris Agreement.
References to net zero for bp in the context of our ambition and aims 1, 2 
and 3 mean achieving a balance between (a) the relevant Scope 1 and 2 
emissions (for aim 1), Scope 3 emissions (for aim 2) or product lifecycle 
emissions (for aim 3) and (b) the aggregate of applicable deductions from 
qualifying activities such as sinks under our methodology at the applicable 
time.
Net zero « operations
bp’s aim to reach net zero operational greenhouse gas (CO2 and methane) 
emissions by 2050 or sooner, on a gross operational control basis, in 
accordance with bp’s aim 1 which relates to our reported Scope 1 and 2 
emissions. Any interim target or aim in respect of bp’s aim 1 is defined in 
terms of absolute reductions relative to the baseline year of 2019.
Net zero « production
bp’s aim to reach net zero CO 2 emissions, in accordance with bp’s aim 2, 
from the carbon in our upstream oil and gas production, in respect of the 
estimated CO 2 emissions from the combustion of upstream production of 
crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (based on bp’s net share of 
production, excluding bp’s share of Rosneft production and assuming that 
all produced volumes undergo full stoichiometric combustion to CO 2). Aim 
2 is bp’s Scope 3 aim and relates to Scope 3 category 11 emissions within 
the selected boundary of bp’s net share of upstream production of oil and 
gas. Any interim target or aim in respect of bp’s aim 2 is defined in terms of 
absolute reductions relative to the baseline year of 2019.
Net zero « sales
bp’s aim to reach net zero for the carbon intensity of sold energy 
products «, in accordance with bp’s aim 3. Any interim target or aim in 
respect of bp’s aim 3 is defined in terms of reductions in the carbon 
374 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

intensity of the energy products we sell (in grams CO 2e/MJ) relative to the 
baseline year of 2019.
Physically traded energy products
For the purposes of aim 3, this includes trades in energy products «which 
are physically settled, with the exception of, for example, financial trades 
and certain other transactions where the purpose or effect is that the 
volumes traded or supplied net off against each other.
Sold energy products
For the purposes of aim 3, these represent the energy products « we sell to 
third parties including both marketed sales and physically traded energy 
products« . For these purposes, intercompany sales (sales between two 
group subsidiaries) are not included and equity-accounted entities are 
treated as third parties.
Sustainable emissions reductions (SER)
SERs result from actions or interventions that have led to ongoing 
reductions in Scope 1 (direct) and/or Scope 2 (indirect) greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions (carbon dioxide and methane) such that GHG emissions 
would have been higher in the reporting year if the intervention had not 
taken place. SERs must meet three criteria: a specific intervention that has 
reduced GHG emissions, the reduction must be quantifiable and the 
reduction is expected to be ongoing. Reductions are reportable for a 
12-month period from the start of the intervention/action.
Adjusted EBIDA 
Adjusted EBIDA is a non-IFRS measure and is defined as profit or loss for 
the period, adjusting for finance costs and net finance (income) or expense 
relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits and taxation, 
inventory holding gains or losses before tax, net adjusting items « before 
interest and tax, and taxation on an underlying RC basis, and adding back 
depreciation, depletion and amortization (pre-tax) and exploration 
expenditure written-off (net of adjusting items, pre-tax). bp believes that 
adjusted EBIDA is a useful measure for investors because it is a measure 
closely tracked by management to evaluate bp’s operating performance 
and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it 
may help investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as 
management, the underlying trends in bp’s operational performance on a 
comparable basis, period on period. The nearest equivalent measure on an 
IFRS basis is profit or loss for the period. A reconciliation of profit or loss 
for the period to adjusted EBIDA is provided on page 383.
Adjusted EBIDA per share compound annual growth rate (CAGR)
Non-IFRS measure. Adjusted EBIDA per share is calculated based on the 
shares in issue at period end.
Adjusted EBITDA  
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-IFRS measure presented for bp's operating 
segments and the group. Adjusted EBITDA for bp's operating segments is 
defined as replacement cost (RC) profit before interest and tax, excluding 
net adjusting items* before interest and tax, and adding back depreciation, 
depletion and amortization and exploration write-offs (net of adjusting 
items). Adjusted EBITDA by business is a further analysis of adjusted 
EBITDA for the customers & products businesses. bp believes it is helpful 
to disclose adjusted EBITDA by operating segment and by business 
because it reflects how the segments measure underlying business 
delivery. The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the segment 
is RC profit or loss before interest and tax, which is bp's measure of profit 
or loss that is required to be disclosed for each operating segment under 
IFRS. A reconciliation to IFRS information is provided on pages 351 and 
384.
Adjusted EBITDA for the group is defined as profit or loss for the period, 
adjusting for finance costs and net finance (income) or expense relating to 
pensions and other post-retirement benefits and taxation, inventory holding 
gains or losses before tax, net adjusting items before interest and tax, and 
adding back depreciation, depletion and amortization (pre-tax) and 
exploration expenditure written-off (net of adjusting items, pre-tax). The 
nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is profit or loss 
for the period. A reconciliation to IFRS information is provided on page 384.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking information for 
adjusted EBITDA for the group, strategic themes or transition growth 
engine, because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting items required to calculate a meaningful 
comparable IFRS forward-looking financial measure. These items include 
inventory holding gains or losses, adjusting items and exploration 
expenditure written off that are difficult to predict in advance in order to 
include in an IFRS estimate.
Adjusted free cash flow
Adjusted free cash flow, as applicable to the directors’ remuneration 
performance measure, is a non-IFRS measure and is defined as Operating 
cash flow less: (1) net cash used in investing activities as presented in the 
group cash flow statement; and (2) lease liability payments included in 
financing activities and adjusting for other proceeds reported within 
financing activities in the group cash flow statement and movements in 
lease creditor.
Adjusting items  
Adjusting items are items that bp discloses separately because it considers 
such disclosures to be meaningful and relevant to investors. They are items 
that management considers to be important to period-on-period analysis of 
the group's results and are disclosed in order to enable investors to better 
understand and evaluate the group’s reported financial performance. 
Adjusting items include gains and losses on the sale of businesses and 
fixed assets, impairments, environmental and other provisions and charges, 
restructuring, integration and rationalization costs, fair value accounting 
effects, costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and other items. 
Adjusting items within equity-accounted earnings are reported net of 
incremental income tax reported by the equity-accounted entity. Adjusting 
items are used as a reconciling adjustment to derive underlying RC profit or 
loss and related underlying measures which are non-IFRS measures. An 
analysis of adjusting items by segment and type is shown on page 337.
Associate
An entity over which the group has significant influence and that is neither a 
subsidiary nor a joint arrangement of the group. Significant influence is the 
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the 
investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Biofuels production
Biofuels production is average thousands of barrels of biofuel production 
per day during the period covered net to bp. This includes equivalent 
ethanol production, bp Bunge biopower for grid export, refining co-
processing and standalone hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO). 
Biogas supply volumes
Biogas supply volumes is the average thousands of barrels of oil equivalent 
per day of production and offtakes during the period covered net to bp.
Bio-refinery
A facility that is dedicated to processing biological materials (including 
waste oil and crop waste) to produce biofuels such as biodiesel and 
sustainable aviation fuel, which may be blended to customer specifications 
with other components such as hydrocarbons at co-located or adjacent 
terminals and tanks.
Blue hydrogen
Hydrogen made from natural gas in combination with carbon captured and 
stored (CCS).
Capital employed  
Non-IFRS measure. It is defined as total equity plus finance debt.
Capital expenditure
Total cash capital expenditure as stated in the group cash flow statement. 
Capital expenditure for the operating segments, gas & low carbon energy 
businesses and customers & products businesses is presented on the 
same basis.
Cash balance point
Cash balance point is defined as the implied Brent oil price 2021 real to 
balance bp’s sources and uses of cash assuming an average bp refining 
marker margin around $11/bbl and Henry Hub at $3/mmBtu in 2021 real 
terms. 
Commodity trading contracts
bp participates in regional and global commodity trading markets in order 
to manage, transact and hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural 
« See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 375

gas that the group either produces or consumes in its manufacturing 
operations. The range of contracts the group enters into in its commodity 
trading operations is described below. Using these contracts, in 
combination with rights to access storage and transportation capacity, 
allows the group to access advantageous pricing differences between 
locations, time periods and grades.
Exchange-traded commodity derivatives
Contracts that are typically in the form of futures and options traded on a 
recognized exchange, such as Nymex and ICE. Such contracts are traded in 
standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, such as Brent and 
West Texas Intermediate; the main product grades, such as gasoline and 
gasoil; and for natural gas and power. Gains and losses, otherwise referred 
to as variation margin, are generally settled on a daily basis with the 
relevant exchange. These contracts are used for the trading and risk 
management of crude oil, refined products, and natural gas and power. 
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity 
derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues for 
accounting purposes.
Over-the-counter (OTC) contracts 
Contracts that are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options. 
Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties or 
through brokers, others may be cleared by a central clearing counterparty. 
These contracts can be used both for trading and risk management 
activities. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on OTC contracts are 
included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes. 
Many grades of crude oil bought and sold use standard contracts including 
US domestic light sweet crude oil, commonly referred to as West Texas 
Intermediate, and a standard North Sea crude blend – Brent, Forties, 
Oseberg and Ekofisk (BFOE). Forward contracts are used in connection 
with the purchase of crude oil supplies for refineries and for marketing and 
sales of the group’s oil production and refined products. The contracts 
typically contain standard delivery and settlement terms. These 
transactions call for physical delivery of oil with consequent operational and 
price risk. However, various means exist and are used from time to time, to 
settle obligations under the contracts in cash rather than through physical 
delivery. Physically settled BFOE contracts delivered by cargo additionally 
specify a standard volume and tolerance.
Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and the 
UK, where commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in future 
periods. These contracts are negotiated between two parties to purchase 
and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and settlement at 
a future date. Typically, the contracts specify delivery terms for the 
underlying commodity. Some of these transactions are not settled 
physically as they can be net settled by transacting offsetting sale or 
purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period. The 
contracts contain standard terms such as delivery point, pricing 
mechanism, settlement terms and specification of the commodity. 
Typically, volume, price and term (e.g. daily, monthly and balance of month) 
are the main variable contract terms.
Swaps are typically contractual obligations to exchange cash flows 
between two parties. A typical swap transaction usually references a 
floating price and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash flows 
being settled. Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy 
or sell crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on or 
before a specific future date. Amounts under these derivative financial 
instruments are settled at expiry. Typically, netting agreements are used to 
limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
Spot and term contracts 
Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the market 
price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the inventory is 
taken. Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at 
regular intervals over an agreed term. Though spot and term contracts may 
have a standard form, there is no offsetting mechanism in place. As such, 
these transactions result in physical delivery with operational and price risk. 
Spot and term contracts typically relate to purchases of crude for a refinery, 
products for marketing, or third-party natural gas, or sales of the group’s oil 
production, oil products or gas production to third parties. For accounting 
purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and other operating 
revenues when title passes. Similarly, spot and term purchases are included 
in purchases for accounting purposes.Consolidation adjustment – UPII
Unrealized profit in inventory arising on inter-segment transactions.
Convenience gross margin
Non-IFRS measure. Convenience gross margin is calculated as RC profit 
before interest and tax for the customers & products segment, excluding 
RC profit before interest and tax for the refining & trading business (a non-
IFRS measure), and adjusting items « (as defined above) for the 
convenience & mobility business to derive underlying RC profit before 
interest and tax for the convenience & mobility business; subtracting 
underlying RC profit before interest and tax for the Castrol business; adding 
back depreciation, depletion and amortization, production and 
manufacturing, distribution and administration expenses for convenience & 
mobility (excluding Castrol ); subtracting earnings from equity-accounted 
entities in the convenience & mobility business (excluding Castrol ) and 
gross margin for the retail fuels, EV charging, aviation, B2B and midstream 
businesses. bp believes it is helpful because this measure may help 
investors to understand and evaluate, in the same way as management, our 
progress against our strategic objectives of convenience growth. The 
nearest IFRS measure is RC profit before interest and tax for the customers 
& products segment. A reconciliation of RC profit before interest and tax for 
the customers & products segment to convenience gross margin is 
provided on page 351 .
Convenience gross margin growth
Non-IFRS measure. See convenience gross margin definition above. 
Convenience gross margin growth at constant foreign exchange is a non-
IFRS measure. This metric requires a calculation of the comparative 
convenience gross margin ($ million) at current period foreign exchange 
rates (constant foreign exchange) and compares the current period value 
with the restated comparative period value, which results in the growth % at 
constant foreign exchange rates. bp believes the convenience gross margin 
growth at constant foreign exchange are useful measures because these 
measures may help investors to understand and evaluate, in the same way 
as management, our progress against our strategic objectives of redefining 
convenience. The nearest IFRS measure to convenience gross margin is RC 
profit before interest and tax for the customer & products segment.  
Convenience & EV gross margin growth (%)
Non-IFRS measure. See convenience gross margin and EV gross margin 
definitions. Convenience and EV gross margin growth at constant foreign 
exchange is a non-IFRS measure. This metric, as applicable to the directors’ 
remuneration performance measure, requires a calculation of the 
comparative convenience and EV gross margin ($ million) at current period 
foreign exchange rates (constant foreign exchange) and compares the 
current period value with the restated comparative period value, which 
results in the growth % at constant foreign exchange rates. The nearest 
IFRS measure to convenience gross margin and EV gross margin is RC 
profit before interest and tax for the customer & products segment.
Cumulative cash costs reductions
Non-IFRS measure. Cash costs is defined as production and manufacturing 
expenses plus distribution and administration expenses and excludes costs 
that are classified as adjusting items and costs that are variable, primarily 
with volumes (such as freight costs). It also includes exploration geological 
and geophysical costs, which are included in the exploration expenses line 
in the group income statement. Cumulative cash cost reductions by the end 
of 2022 compared to 2019 baseline, as applicable to the directors’ 
remuneration performance measure, are defined as reinvent headcount 
savings, restructuring, location, agile, operational and other savings, less 
agreed portfolio changes and costs in direct support of growth.
Customer touchpoints
Customer touchpoints are the number of retail customer transactions per 
day on bp forecourts globally. These include transactions involving fuel 
and/or convenience across all channels of trade.
Developed renewables to final investment decision (FID)
Total generating capacity for assets developed to FID by all entities where 
bp has an equity share (proportionate to equity share). If asset is 
subsequently sold bp will continue to record capacity as developed to FID. 
If bp equity share increases developed capacity to FID will increase 
proportionately to share increase for any assets where bp held equity at the 
point of FID.
376 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Divestment proceeds
Disposal proceeds as per the group cash flow statement.
Dividend yield
Sum of the four quarterly dividends announced in respect of the year as a 
percentage of the year-end share price.
Dutch  Title  Transfer  Facility
The TTF (Title Transfer Facility) is the virtual trading point for natural gas in 
the Netherlands. It is commonly used as a benchmark hub for gas prices in 
Europe.
Effective tax rate (ETR) on replacement cost (RC) profit or loss
Non-IFRS measure. The ETR on RC profit or loss is calculated by dividing 
taxation on a RC basis by RC profit or loss before tax. Taxation on a RC 
basis for the group is calculated as taxation as stated on the group income 
statement adjusted for taxation on inventory holding gains and losses. 
Information on RC profit or loss is provided below. bp believes it is helpful 
to disclose the ETR on RC profit or loss because this measure excludes the 
impact of price changes on the replacement of inventories and allows for 
more meaningful comparisons between reporting periods. Taxation on a 
RC basis and ETR on RC profit or loss are non-IFRS measures. The nearest 
equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is the ETR on profit or loss for the 
period. A reconciliation to IFRS information is provided on page 382 .
Electric vehicle charge points / EV charge points 
Defined as the number of connectors on a charging device, operated by 
either bp or a bp joint venture, as adjusted to be reflective of bp’s 
accounting share of joint arrangements. 
EV gross margin 
Non-IFRS measure. EV gross margin, as applicable to the directors’ 
remuneration performance measure, is calculated as RC profit before 
interest and tax for the customers & products segment, excluding RC profit 
before interest and tax for the refining & trading business (a non-IFRS 
measure), and adjusting items « (as defined above) for the convenience & 
mobility business to derive underlying RC profit before interest and tax for 
the convenience & mobility business; subtracting underlying RC profit 
before interest and tax for the Castrol business; adding back depreciation, 
depletion and amortization, production and manufacturing, distribution and 
administration expenses for convenience & mobility (excluding Castrol); 
subtracting earnings from equity-accounted entities in the convenience & 
mobility business (excluding Castrol) and gross margin for the convenience 
and retail fuels, aviation, B2B and midstream businesses. The nearest IFRS 
measure to EV gross margin is RC profit before interest and tax for the 
customer & products segment.
Fair value accounting effects 
Non-IFRS adjustments to our IFRS profit (loss).They reflect the difference 
between the way bp manages the economic exposure and internally 
measures performance of certain activities and the way those activities are 
measured under IFRS. Fair value accounting effects are included within 
adjusting items. They relate to certain of the group's commodity, interest 
rate and currency risk exposures as detailed below. Other than as noted 
below, the fair value accounting effects described are reported in both the 
gas & low carbon energy and customer & products segments. 
bp uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure relating 
to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, natural 
gas and petroleum products. Under IFRS, these inventories are recorded at 
historical cost. The related derivative instruments, however, are required to 
be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized in the income 
statement. This is because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not 
followed, principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness-testing 
requirements. Therefore, measurement differences in relation to 
recognition of gains and losses occur. Gains and losses on these 
inventories, other than net realizable value provisions, are not recognized 
until the commodity is sold in a subsequent accounting period. Gains and 
losses on the related derivative commodity contracts are recognized in the 
income statement, from the time the derivative commodity contract is 
entered into, on a fair value basis using forward prices consistent with the 
contract maturity.
bp enters into physical commodity contracts to meet certain business 
requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery or the sale of bp’s gas production. Under IFRS these physical contracts are treated as 
derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as 
part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions. Gains and losses arising 
are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative 
commodity contract is entered into. 
IFRS require that inventory held for trading is recorded at its fair value using 
period-end spot prices, whereas any related derivative commodity 
instruments are required to be recorded at values based on forward prices 
consistent with the contract maturity. Depending on market conditions, 
these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot prices, 
resulting in measurement differences. 
bp enters into contracts for pipelines and other transportation, storage 
capacity, oil and gas processing, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and certain gas 
and power contracts that, under IFRS, are recorded on an accruals basis. 
These contracts are risk-managed using a variety of derivative instruments 
that are fair valued under IFRS. This results in measurement differences in 
relation to recognition of gains and losses. 
The way that bp manages the economic exposures described above, and 
measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities are 
measured under IFRS. bp calculates this difference for consolidated entities 
by comparing the IFRS result with management’s internal measure of 
performance. We believe that disclosing management’s estimate of this 
difference provides useful information for investors because it enables 
investors to see the economic effect of these activities as a whole. 
These include:
•Under management’s internal measure of performance the inventory, 
transportation and capacity contracts in question are valued based on 
fair value using relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of the 
period. 
•Fair value accounting effects also include changes in the fair value of 
the near-term portions of LNG contracts that fall within bp’s risk 
management framework. LNG contracts are not considered derivatives, 
because there is insufficient market liquidity, and they are therefore 
accrual accounted under IFRS. However, oil and natural gas derivative 
financial instruments used to risk manage the near-term portions of the 
LNG contracts are fair valued under IFRS. The fair value accounting 
effect, which is reported in the gas and low carbon energy segment, 
represents the change in value of LNG contracts that are being risk 
managed and which is reflected in the underlying result, but not in 
reported earnings. Management believes that this gives a better 
representation of performance in each period. 
Furthermore, the fair values of derivative instruments used to risk manage 
certain other oil, gas, power and other contracts, are deferred to match with 
the underlying exposure. The commodity contracts for business 
requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis. 
In addition, fair value accounting effects include changes in the fair value of 
derivatives entered into by the group to manage currency exposure and 
interest rate risks relating to hybrid bonds to their respective first call 
periods. The hybrid bonds which were issued on 17 June 2020 are 
classified as equity instruments and were recorded in the balance sheet at 
that date at their USD equivalent issued value. Under IFRS these equity 
instruments are not remeasured from period to period, and do not qualify 
for application of hedge accounting. The derivative instruments relating to 
the hybrid bonds, however, are required to be recorded at fair value with 
mark to market gains and losses recognized in the income statement. 
Therefore, measurement differences in relation to the recognition of gains 
and losses occur. The fair value accounting effect, which is reported in the 
other businesses & corporate segment, eliminates the fair value gains and 
losses of these derivative financial instruments that are recognized in the 
income statement. We believe that this gives a better representation of 
performance, by more appropriately reflecting the economic effect of these 
risk management activities, in each period. 
Fast / Fast charging
Fast charging comprises rapid charging « and ultra-fast charging «.
Finance debt ratio
Finance debt ratio is defined as the ratio of finance debt to the total of 
finance debt plus total equity.
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 377

Gearing and net debt
Non-IFRS measures. Net debt is calculated as finance debt, as shown in the 
balance sheet, plus the fair value of associated derivative financial 
instruments that are used to hedge foreign currency exchange and interest 
rate risks relating to finance debt, for which hedge accounting is applied, 
less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt does not include accrued interest, 
which is reported within other receivables and other payables on the 
balance sheet and for which the associated cash flows are presented as 
operating cash flows in the group cash flow statement. Gearing is defined 
as the ratio of net debt to the total of net debt plus total equity. bp believes 
these measures provide useful information to investors. Net debt enables 
investors to see the economic effect of finance debt, related hedges and 
cash and cash equivalents in total. Gearing enables investors to see how 
significant net debt is relative to total equity. The derivatives are reported on 
the balance sheet within the headings ‘Derivative financial instruments’. See 
Financial statements – Note 27  for information on finance debt, which is 
the nearest equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis. The nearest 
equivalent IFRS measure to gearing on an IFRS basis is finance debt ratio.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking information for 
net debt or gearing to finance debt and total equity, because without 
unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting 
items required to present a meaningful comparable IFRS forward-looking 
financial measure. These items include fair value asset (liability) of hedges 
related to finance debt and cash and cash equivalents, that are difficult to 
predict in advance in order to include in an IFRS estimate.
Gearing including leases and net debt including leases
Non-IFRS measures. Net debt including leases is calculated as net debt 
plus lease liabilities, less the net amount of partner receivables and 
payables relating to leases entered into on behalf of joint operations. 
Gearing including leases is defined as the ratio of net debt including leases 
to the total of net debt including leases plus total equity. bp believes these 
measures provide useful information to investors as they enable investors 
to understand the impact of the group’s lease portfolio on net debt and 
gearing. See Financial statements – Note 27  for information on finance 
debt, which is the nearest equivalent measure to net debt including leases 
on an IFRS basis. The nearest equivalent IFRS measure to gearing including 
leases on an IFRS basis is finance debt ratio. A reconciliation to IFRS 
information is provided on page 339 .
Green hydrogen
Hydrogen produced by electrolysis of water using renewable power.
Grey hydrogen
Produced via natural gas or coal without CCUS.
Hydrocarbons
Liquids and natural gas. Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 
5.8 billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels.
Hydrogen pipeline
Hydrogen projects which have not been developed to final investment 
decision (FID) but which have advanced to the concept development stage.
Inorganic capital expenditure
A subset of capital expenditure on a cash basis and a non-IFRS measure. 
Inorganic capital expenditure comprises consideration in business 
combinations and certain other significant investments made by the group. 
It is reported on a cash basis. bp believes that this measure provides useful 
information as it allows investors to understand how bp’s management 
invests funds in projects which expand the group’s activities through 
acquisition. The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is capital 
expenditure on a cash basis. Further information and a reconciliation to 
IFRS information is provided on page 336 .
Installed renewables capacity
Installed renewables capacity is bp's share of capacity for operating assets 
owned by entities where bp has an equity share.
Inventory holding gains and losses
Inventory holding gains and losses are non-IFRS adjustments to our IFRS 
profit (loss) and represent:
•The difference between the cost of sales calculated using the 
replacement cost of inventory and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out (FIFO) method after adjusting for any changes in 
provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than 
its cost. Under the FIFO method, which we use for IFRS reporting of 
inventories other than for trading inventories, the cost of inventory 
charged to the income statement is based on its historical cost of 
purchase or manufacture, rather than its replacement cost. In volatile 
energy markets, this can have a significant distorting effect on reported 
income. The amounts disclosed as inventory holding gains and losses 
represent the difference between the charge to the income statement 
for inventory on a FIFO basis (after adjusting for any related movements 
in net realizable value provisions) and the charge that would have arisen 
based on the replacement cost of inventory. For this purpose, the 
replacement cost of inventory is calculated using data from each 
operation’s production and manufacturing system, either on a monthly 
basis, or separately for each transaction where the system allows this 
approach. 
•An adjustment relating to certain trading inventories that are not price 
risk managed which relate to a minimum inventory volume that is 
required to be held to maintain underlying business activities. This 
adjustment represents the movement in fair value of the inventories due 
to prices, on a grade-by-grade basis, during the period. This is calculated 
from each operation’s inventory management system on a monthly 
basis using the discrete monthly movement in market prices for these 
inventories. 
The amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial 
statements as a gain or loss. No adjustment is made in respect of the cost 
of inventories held as part of a trading position and certain other temporary 
inventory positions that are price risk-managed. See Replacement cost (RC) 
profit or loss definition below.
Joint arrangement
An arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control
Contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists 
only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint operation
A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the 
arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, 
relating to the arrangement.
Joint venture
A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the 
arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Liquids
Comprises crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. For the oil 
production & operations segment, it also includes bitumen.
LNG portfolio
LNG portfolio refers to bp group’s LNG equity production plus additional 
long-term merchant LNG volumes.
LNG train
An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural gas in 
the formation of LNG.
Low carbon activity 
An activity relating to low carbon including: renewable electricity; bioenergy; 
electric vehicles and other future mobility solutions; trading and marketing 
low carbon products; blue or green hydrogen « and carbon capture, use 
and storage (CCUS). 
Note that, while there is some overlap of activities, these terms do not 
mean the same as bp’s strategic focus area of low carbon energy or our 
low carbon energy sub-segment, reported within the gas & low carbon 
energy segment.
Low carbon activity investment 
Capital investment in relation to low carbon activity «.
Major projects
Have a bp net investment of at least $250 million, or are considered to be of 
378 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

strategic importance to bp or of a high degree of complexity. 
Operating cash flow
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities as stated in the group 
cash flow statement. When used in the context of a segment rather than 
the group, the terms refer to the segment’s share thereof.
Operating management system (OMS)
bp’s OMS helps us manage risks in our operating activities by setting out 
bp’s principles for good operating practice. It brings together bp 
requirements on health, safety, security, the environment, social 
responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, such as 
maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, into a 
common management system.
Organic capital expenditure
Non-IFRS measure. Organic capital expenditure comprises capital 
expenditure on a cash basis less inorganic capital expenditure. bp believes 
that this measure provides useful information as it allows investors to 
understand how bp’s management invests funds in developing and 
maintaining the group’s assets. The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS 
basis is capital expenditure on a cash basis. An analysis of organic capital 
expenditure by segment and region, and a reconciliation to IFRS 
information is provided on page 336.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking information for 
organic capital expenditure to total cash capital expenditure, because 
without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately the 
adjusting item, inorganic capital expenditure, that is difficult to predict in 
advance in order to derive the nearest IFRS estimate.
Production-sharing agreement / contract (PSA / PSC) 
An arrangement through which an oil and gas company bears the risks and 
costs of exploration, development and production. In return, if exploration is 
successful, the oil company receives entitlement to variable physical 
volumes of hydrocarbons, representing recovery of the costs incurred and a 
stipulated share of the production remaining after such cost recovery.
Rapid / Rapid charging  
Rapid charging includes electric vehicle charging of greater or equal to 
50kW and less than 150kW.
Realizations
Realizations are the result of dividing revenue generated from hydrocarbon 
sales, excluding revenue generated from purchases made for resale and 
royalty volumes, by revenue generating hydrocarbon production volumes. 
Revenue generating hydrocarbon production reflects the bp share of 
production as adjusted for any production which does not generate 
revenue. Adjustments may include losses due to shrinkage, amounts 
consumed during processing, and contractual or regulatory host 
committed volumes such as royalties. For the gas & low carbon energy and 
oil production & operations segments, realizations include transfers 
between businesses.
Refining availability
Represents Solomon Associates’ operational availability for bp-operated 
refineries, which is defined as the percentage of the year that a unit is 
available for processing after subtracting the annualized time lost due to 
turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory 
downtime.
Refining marker margin (RMM)
The average of regional indicator margins weighted for bp’s crude refining 
capacity in each region. Each regional marker margin is based on product 
yields and a marker crude oil deemed appropriate for the region. The 
regional indicator margins may not be representative of the margins 
achieved by bp in any period because of bp’s particular refinery 
configurations and crude and product slate.
Replacement cost (RC) profit or loss / RC profit or loss 
attributable to bp shareholders 
Reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is 
calculated as profit or loss attributable to bp shareholders, adjusting for 
inventory holding gains and losses (net of tax). RC profit or loss for the 
group is not a recognized IFRS measure. bp believes this measure is useful 
to illustrate to investors the fact that crude oil and product prices can vary significantly from period to period and that the impact on our reported 
result under IFRS can be significant. Inventory holding gains and losses 
vary from period to period due to changes in prices as well as changes in 
underlying inventory levels. In order for investors to understand the 
operating performance of the group excluding the impact of price changes 
on the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of operating 
performance between reporting periods, bp’s management believes it is 
helpful to disclose this measure. The nearest equivalent measure on an 
IFRS basis is profit or loss attributable to bp shareholders. See Financial 
statements – Note 5. A reconciliation to IFRS information is provided on 
page 382.
Reported recordable injury frequency
Reported recordable injury frequency measures the number of reported 
work-related employee and contractor incidents that result in a fatality or 
injury per 200,000 hours worked. This represents reported incidents 
occurring within bp’s operational HSSE reporting boundary. That boundary 
includes bp’s own operated facilities and certain other locations or 
situations.
Renewables pipeline
Renewable projects satisfying the criteria below until the point they can be 
considered developed to FID: 
Site based projects that have obtained land exclusivity rights, or for power 
purchase agreement based projects an offer has been made to the 
counterparty, or for auction projects pre-qualification criteria has been met, 
or for acquisition projects post a binding offer has been accepted.
Reserves replacement ratio
The extent to which the year’s production has been replaced by proved 
reserves added to our reserve base. The ratio is expressed in oil-equivalent 
terms and includes changes resulting from discoveries, improved recovery 
and extensions and revisions to previous estimates, but excludes changes 
resulting from acquisitions and disposals.
Retail sites
Retail sites include sites operated by dealers, jobbers, franchisees or brand 
licensees or joint venture (JV) partners, under the bp brand. These may 
move to and from the bp brand as their fuel supply agreement or brand 
licence agreement expires and are renegotiated in the normal course of 
business. Retail sites are primarily branded bp, ARCO , Amoco , Aral , 
Thorntons , and TravelCenters of America and also includes sites in India 
through our Jio-bp JV.
Return on average capital employed
Non-IFRS measure. Return on average capital employed (ROACE) is defined 
as underlying replacement cost profit, which is defined as profit or loss 
attributable to bp shareholders adjusted for inventory holding gains and 
losses, adjusting items and related taxation on inventory holding gains and 
losses and adjusting items total taxation, after adding back non-controlling 
interest and interest expense net of tax, divided by the average of the 
beginning and ending balances of total equity plus finance debt, excluding 
cash and cash equivalents and goodwill as presented on the group balance 
sheet over the periods presented. Interest expense before tax is finance 
costs as presented on the group income statement, excluding lease 
interest, the unwinding of the discount on provisions and other payables 
and other adjusting items reported in finance costs. bp believes it is helpful 
to disclose the ROACE because this measure gives an indication of the 
company's capital efficiency. The nearest IFRS measures of the numerator 
and denominator are profit or loss for the period attributable to bp 
shareholders and total equity respectively. The reconciliation of the 
numerator and denominator is provided on page 383.
We are unable to present forward-looking information of the nearest IFRS 
measures of the numerator and denominator for ROACE, because without 
unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting 
items required to calculate a meaningful comparable IFRS forward-looking 
financial measure. These items include inventory holding gains or losses 
and interest net of tax, that are difficult to predict in advance in order to 
include in an IFRS estimate.
Strategic convenience sites
Strategic convenience sites are retail sites, within the bp portfolio, which 
sell bp-supplied vehicle energy (e.g. bp, Aral , Arco , Amoco , Thorntons , bp 
pulse , TravelCenters of America  and PETRO ) and either carry one of the 
« See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 379

strategic convenience brands (e.g. M&S, Rewe to Go) or a differentiated bp-
controlled convenience offer. To be considered a strategic convenience 
site, the convenience offer should have a demonstrable level of 
differentiation in the market in which it operates. Strategic convenience site 
count includes sites under a pilot phase.
Subsidiary
An entity that is controlled by the bp group. Control of an investee exists 
when an investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the investee.
Surplus cash flow
Surplus cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for 
discretionary expenditures. It is a non-IFRS financial measure that should 
be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, net cash 
provided by operating activities, reported in accordance with IFRS. The 
surplus cash flow forms part of bp's financial frame. 
Surplus cash flow refers to the net surplus of sources of cash over uses of 
cash, after reaching the $35 billion net debt target. Sources of cash include 
net cash provided by operating activities, cash provided from investing 
activities and cash receipts relating to transactions involving non-
controlling interests. Uses of cash include lease liability payments, 
payments on perpetual hybrid bond, dividends paid, cash capital 
expenditure, the cash cost of share buybacks to offset the dilution from 
vesting of awards under employee share schemes, cash payments relating 
to transactions involving non-controlling interests and currency translation 
differences relating to cash and cash equivalents as presented on the 
condensed group cash flow statement.
For 2022, the sources of cash includes other proceeds related to the 
proceeds from the disposal of a loan note related to the Alaska divestment. 
The cash was received in the fourth quarter 2021, was reported as a 
financing cash flow and was not included in other proceeds at the time due 
to potential recourse from the counterparty. The proceeds are being 
recognized as the potential recourse reduces.
The components of our sources of cash and uses of cash are provided on 
page 339 .
Technical service contract (TSC) 
Technical service contract is an arrangement through which an oil and gas 
company bears the risks and costs of exploration, development and 
production. In return, the oil and gas company receives entitlement to 
variable physical volumes of hydrocarbons, representing recovery of the 
costs incurred and a profit margin which reflects incremental production 
added to the oilfield. 
Tier 1 and tier 2 process safety events
Tier 1 events are losses of primary containment from a process of greatest 
consequence – causing harm to a member of the workforce, damage to 
equipment from a fire or explosion, a community impact or exceeding 
defined quantities. Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence. These 
represent reported incidents occurring within bp’s operational HSSE 
reporting boundary. That boundary includes bp’s own operated facilities 
and certain other locations or situations.
Tight oil and gas
Natural oil and gas reservoirs locked in hard sandstone rocks with low 
permeability, making the underground formation extremely tight.
Transition growth
Activities, represented by a set of transition growth engines, that transition 
bp toward its objective to be an integrated energy company, and that 
comprise our low carbon activity « alongside other businesses that support 
transition, such as our power trading and marketing business and 
convenience.
Transition growth investment
Capital investment in relation to transition growth «, that is aligned to our 
aim 5 (to increase the proportion of investment we make into our non-oil 
and -gas businesses. For this purpose, we define 'oil and gas' activities as 
those primarily encompassing the production, refining and sale of fossil 
hydrocarbons and their products and those associated with the dedicated 
gas and oil trading businesses).UK National Balancing Point
A virtual trading location for sale, purchase and exchange of UK natural gas. 
It is the pricing and delivery point for the Intercontinental Exchange natural 
gas futures contract.
Ultra fast / Ultra-fast charging  
Electric vehicle charging of greater than or equal to 150kW.
Unconventionals
Resources found in geographic accumulations over a large area, that 
usually present additional challenges to development such as low 
permeability or high viscosity. Examples include shale gas and oil, coalbed 
methane, gas hydrates and natural bitumen deposits. These typically 
require specialized extraction technology such as hydraulic fracturing or 
steam injection.
Underlying effective tax rate (ETR) 
Non-IFRS measure. The underlying ETR is calculated by dividing taxation on 
an underlying replacement cost (RC) basis by underlying RC profit or loss 
before tax. Taxation on an underlying RC basis for the group is calculated 
as taxation as stated on the group income statement adjusted for taxation 
on inventory holding gains and losses and adjusting items total taxation. 
Information on underlying RC profit or loss is provided below. Taxation on 
an underlying RC basis presented for the operating segments is calculated 
through an allocation of taxation on an underlying RC basis to each 
segment. bp believes it is helpful to disclose the underlying ETR because 
this measure may help investors to understand and evaluate, in the same 
manner as management, the underlying trends in bp’s operational 
performance on a comparable basis, period on period. Taxation on an 
underlying RC basis and underlying ETR are non-IFRS measures. The 
nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is the ETR on profit or loss for 
the period. 
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking information for 
underlying ETR to ETR on profit or loss for the period, because without 
unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting 
items required to present a meaningful comparable IFRS forward-looking 
financial measure. These items include the taxation on inventory holding 
gains and losses and adjusting items, that are difficult to predict in advance 
in order to include in an IFRS estimate. A reconciliation to IFRS information 
is provided on page 382 .
Underlying production
Production after adjusting for acquisitions and divestments and entitlement 
impacts in our production-sharing agreements (PSAs). 2023 underlying 
production, when compared with 2022, is production after adjusting for 
acquisitions and divestments, curtailments, and entitlement impacts in our 
production-sharing agreements/contracts and technical service contract.
Underlying replacement cost (RC) profit or loss / underlying RC 
profit or loss attributable to bp shareholders
Non-IFRS measure. RC profit or loss « (as defined above) after excluding 
net adjusting items and related taxation. See page 337 for additional 
information on the adjusting items that are used to arrive at underlying RC 
profit or loss in order to enable a full understanding of the items and their 
financial impact. Underlying RC profit or loss before interest and 
tax for the operating segments or customers & products businesses is 
calculated as RC profit or loss (as defined above) including profit or loss 
attributable to non-controlling interests before interest and tax for the 
operating segments and excluding net adjusting items for the respective 
operating segment or business.
bp believes that underlying RC profit or loss is a useful measure for 
investors because it is a measure closely tracked by management to 
evaluate bp’s operating performance and to make financial, strategic and 
operating decisions and because it may help investors to understand and 
evaluate, in the same manner as management, the underlying trends in bp’s 
operational performance on a comparable basis, period on period, by 
adjusting for the effects of these adjusting items. The nearest equivalent 
measure on an IFRS basis for the group is profit or loss attributable to bp 
shareholders. The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for 
segments and businesses is RC profit or loss before interest and taxation. 
A reconciliation to IFRS information is provided on page 382  for the group 
and pages 39-47 for the segments.
380 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Underlying RC profit or loss per share and underlying RC profit or 
loss per ADS
Non-IFRS measures. Earnings per share is defined in Note 11 . Underlying 
RC profit or loss per ordinary share is calculated using the same 
denominator as earnings per share as defined in the consolidated financial 
statements. The numerator used is underlying RC profit or loss attributable 
to bp shareholders rather than profit or loss attributable to bp shareholders. 
Underlying RC profit or loss per ADS is calculated as outlined above for 
underlying RC profit or loss per share except the denominator is adjusted to 
reflect one ADS equivalent to six ordinary shares. bp believes it is helpful to 
disclose the underlying RC profit or loss per ordinary share and per ADS 
because these measures may help investors to understand and evaluate, in 
the same manner as management, the underlying trends in bp’s operational 
performance on a comparable basis, period on period. The nearest 
equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is basic earnings per share based on 
profit or loss for the period attributable to bp shareholders. A reconciliation 
to IFRS information is provided on page 382 .
upstream
upstream includes oil and natural gas field development and production 
within the gas & low carbon energy and oil production & operations 
segments. References to upstream exclude Rosneft. 
upstream / hydrocarbon plant reliability
bp-operated upstream plant reliability is calculated taking 100% less the 
ratio of total unplanned plant deferrals divided by installed production 
capacity, excluding non-operated assets and bpx energy. Unplanned plant 
deferrals are associated with the topside plant and where applicable the 
subsea equipment (excluding wells and reservoir). Unplanned plant 
deferrals include breakdowns, which does not include Gulf of Mexico 
weather-related downtime.
upstream unit production costs
upstream unit production costs are calculated as production costs divided 
by units of production. Production costs do not include ad valorem and 
severance taxes. Units of production are barrels for liquids and thousands 
of cubic feet for gas. Amounts disclosed are for bp subsidiaries only and do 
not include bp’s share of equity-accounted entities.
West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  
A light sweet crude oil, priced at Cushing, Oklahoma, which serves as a 
benchmark price for purchases of oil in the US.
Working capital 
Movements in inventories and other current and non-current assets and 
liabilities as stated in the group cash flow statement.
Trade marks
Trade marks of the bp group appear throughout this report. They include: 
Aral, Aral pulse, BP, bp pulse, Castrol, Castrol ON, PETRO, Amoco, TA, 
Thorntons , Gigahub
Trade marks: 
REWE to Go – a registered trade mark of REWE.
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 381

Non-IFRS measures reconciliations
Reconciliation of profit or loss for the period to underlying RC profit or loss «
$ million
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders  15,239  (2,487)  7,565  (20,305)  4,026 
Inventory holding (gains) losses «, before tax  1,236  (1,351)  (3,655)  2,868  (667) 
Taxation charge (credit) on inventory holding gains and losses  (292)  332  829  (667)  156 
RC profit (loss) « for the year  16,183  (3,506)  4,739  (18,104)  3,515 
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items «, before tax  (1,143)  29,781  8,697  16,649  8,263 
Adjusting items total taxation  (1,204)  1,378  (621)  (4,235)  (1,788) 
Underlying RC profit or loss for the year  13,836  27,653  12,815  (5,690)  9,990 
Reconciliation of basic earnings per ordinary share to underlying RC profit per ordinary share «
Per ordinary share – cents
2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders  87.78  (13.10)  37.57 
Inventory holding (gains) losses «, before tax  7.12  (7.12)  (18.16) 
Taxation charge (credit) on inventory holding gains and losses  (1.69)  1.75  4.12 
 93.21  (18.47)  23.53 
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items «, before tax  (6.58)  156.84  43.21 
Taxation charge (credit) on adjusting items  (6.94)  7.26  (3.09) 
Underlying RC profit for the year  79.69  145.63  63.65 
Reconciliation of basic earnings per ADS to underlying RC profit per ADS «
Per ADS – dollars
2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders  5.27  (0.79)  2.25 
Inventory holding (gains) losses «, before tax  0.43  (0.43)  (1.09) 
Taxation charge (credit) on inventory holding gains and losses  (0.11)  0.11  0.25 
 5.59  (1.11)  1.41 
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items «, before tax  (0.40)  9.41  2.59 
Taxation charge (credit) on adjusting items  (0.41)  0.44  (0.19) 
Underlying RC profit for the year  4.78  8.74  3.82 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate (ETR) to ETR on RC profit or loss and underlying ETR «
Taxation (charge) credit
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Taxation on profit or loss before taxation for the year  (7,869)  (16,762)  (6,740) 
Adjusted for taxation on inventory holding gains and losses  292  (332)  (829) 
Taxation on a RC profit or loss basis  (8,161)  (16,430)  (5,911) 
Adjusted for adjusting items total taxation  1,204  (1,378)  621 
Taxation on an underlying RC basis  (9,365)  (15,052)  (6,532) 
Effective tax rate
%
2023 2022 2021
ETR on profit or loss before taxation for the year  33  109  44 
Adjusted for inventory holding gains and losses  —  8  7 
ETR on RC profit or loss  33  117  51 
Adjusted for adjusting items total taxation  6  (83)  (19) 
Underlying ETR  39  34  32 
382 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Return on average capital employed (ROACE) «
$ million
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders  15,239  (2,487)  7,565  (20,305)  4,026 
Inventory holding (gains) losses «, before tax  1,236  (1,351)  (3,655)  2,868  (667) 
Taxation charge (credit) on inventory holding gains and losses  (292)  332  829  (667)  156 
Adjusting items «, before tax  (1,143)  29,781  8,697  16,649  8,263 
Taxation charge (credit) on adjusting items  (1,204)  1,378  (621)  (4,235)  (1,788) 
Underlying RC profit  13,836  27,653  12,815  (5,690)  9,990 
Interest expensea 2,569  1,632  1,322  1,808  2,032 
Taxation on interest expense  (661)  (296)  (195)  (406)  (288) 
Non-controlling interests (NCI)  641  1,130  922  (424)  164 
 16,385  30,119  14,864  (4,712)  11,898 
Total equity  85,493  82,990  90,439  85,568  100,708 
Finance debt  51,954  46,944  61,176  72,664  67,724 
Capital employed  137,447  129,934  151,615  158,232  168,432 
Less: Goodwill  12,472  11,960  12,373  12,480  11,868 
Cash and cash equivalents  33,030  29,195  30,681  31,111  22,472 
 91,945  88,779  108,561  114,641  134,092 
Average capital employed excluding goodwill and cash and cash equivalents  90,362  98,670  111,601  124,367  133,050 
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to bp shareholders divided by total equity 17.8%  (3.0) %  8.4 %  (23.7) %  4.0 %
ROACE 18.1%  30.5 %  13.3 %  (3.8) %  8.9 %
aFinance costs, as reported in the Group income statement, were $3,840 million (2022 $2,703 million, 2021 $2,857 million, 2020 $3,115 million, 2019 $3,489 million). Interest expense is finance costs 
excluding lease interest of $346 million (2022 $257 million, 2021 $306 million, 2020 $350 million), unwinding of discount on provisions and other payables of $912 million (2022 $808 million, 2021 $890 
million, 2020 $957 million, 2019 $1,074 million) and other adjusting items related to finance costs of $13 million (2022 $6 million, 2021 $339 million). 
Adjusted EBIDA «
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) for the period  15,880  (1,357)  8,487 
Finance costs  3,840  2,703  2,857 
Net finance (income) expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits  (241)  (69)  (2) 
Taxation  7,869  16,762  6,740 
Profit before interest and tax  27,348  18,039  18,082 
Inventory holding (gains) losses, before tax  1,236  (1,351)  (3,655) 
 28,584  16,688  14,427 
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items, before interest and tax  (1,548)  29,356  7,915 
 27,036  46,044  22,342 
Taxation on an underlying RC basisa (9,365)  (15,052)  (6,532) 
 17,671  30,992  15,810 
Add back:
Depreciation, depletion and amortization  15,928  14,318  14,805 
Exploration expenditure written off  746  385  168 
Adjusted EBIDA  34,345  45,695  30,783 
aA definition for taxation on an underlying RC basis is included under Underlying ETR in the glossary on page 380 .
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 383

Adjusted EBITDA «
$ million
2023 2022 2021
Profit (loss) for the period 15,880 (1,357) 8,487 
Finance costs 3,840 2,703 2,857 
Net finance (income) expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits (241) (69) (2) 
Taxation 7,869 16,762 6,740 
Profit (loss) before interest and tax 27,348 18,039 18,082 
Inventory holding (gains) losses, before tax 1,236 (1,351) (3,655) 
28,584 16,688 14,427 
Net (favourable) adverse impact of adjusting items, before interest and tax (1,548) 29,356 7,915 
Underlying RC profit (loss) before interest and tax 27,036 46,044 22,342 
Add back:
Depreciation, depletion and amortization 15,928 14,318 14,805 
Exploration expenditure written off 746 385 168 
Adjusted EBITDA 43,710 60,747 37,315 
Reconciliation of RC profit before interest and tax for gas & low carbon energy and oil production & operations to 
adjusted EBITDA «
$ million
2023 2022 2021
gas & low carbon energy
RC profit before interest and tax 14,080 14,696 2,133 
Less: Net favourable (adverse) impact of adjusting items « 5,358 (1,367) (5,395) 
Underlying RC profit before interest and tax « 8,722 16,063 7,528 
Add back: Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,680 5,008 4,464 
Exploration expenditure written off 362 2 43 
Adjusted EBITDA 14,764 21,073 12,035 
oil production & operations
RC profit before interest and tax 11,191 19,721 10,501 
Less: Net favourable (adverse) impact of adjusting items (1,590) (503) 209
Underlying RC profit before interest and tax 12,781 20,224 10,292 
Add back: Depreciation, depletion and amortization 5,692 5,564 6,528 
Exploration expenditure written off 384 383 125 
Adjusted EBITDA 18,857 26,171 16,945 
The Directors’ report on pages 81-104, 105 (in respect of the remuneration committee), 133-135, 247-274 and 335-384 was approved by the board and 
signed on its behalf by Ben J. S. Mathews, company secretary on 8 March 2024.
BP p.l.c.
Registered in England and Wales No. 102498
384 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Signatures
The registrant hereby certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 20-F and that it has duly caused and authorized the undersigned to 
sign this annual report on its behalf.
BP p.l.c.
(Registrant)
/s/ Ben J. S. Mathews 
Company secretary
8 March 2024  
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 385

Cross reference to Form 20-F 
Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers n/a
Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable n/a
Item 3. Key Information
A. [Reserved] n/a
B. Capitalization and indebtedness n/a
C. Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds n/a
D. Risk factors 77-79
Item 4. Information on the Company
A. History and development of the company 34-38, 190-192, 198, 204, 206-210, 342-352, 367, 371
B. Business overview 8-11, 35-38, 44-45, 193-197, 342-357, 362
C. Organizational structure 246
D. Property, plants and equipment 24, 44-45, 203-204, 272-274, 341-353, 358
Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments None
Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects
A. Operating results 8-13, 16-17, 28-38, 77-79, 208-210, 219, 221-235, 342-358
B. Liquidity and capital resources 166, 204, 219-226, 340-341
C. Research and development, patent and licenses, etc. 16, 197
D. Trend information 8-13, 16-17, 28-38, 342-352
E. Critical Accounting Estimates n/a
Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees
A. Directors and senior management 83-87
B. Compensation 105-132, 213-218, 244-245
C. Board practices 83-85, 98-102
D. Employees 70-72, 245
E. Share ownership 70-72, 105-132,  213-218, 244
F. Disclosure of a registrant’s action to recover erroneously awarded compensation n/a
Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions
A. Major shareholders 366-367
B. Related party transactions 206-210, 358
C. Interests of experts and counsel n/a
Item 8. Financial Information
A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 164, 166-246, 275-277, 340, 364
B. Significant Changes  n/a  
Item 9. The Offer and Listing
A. Offer and listing details 364
B. Plan of distribution n/a
C. Markets 364
D. Selling shareholders n/a
E. Dilution n/a
F. Expenses of the issue n/a
Item 10. Additional Information
A. Share capital n/a
B. Memorandum and articles of association 367-369
C. Material contracts 358
D. Exchange controls 364
E. Taxation 364-366
F. Dividends and paying agents n/a
G. Statements by experts n/a
H. Documents on display 371
I. Subsidiary information n/a
J. Annual Report to Security Holders n/a
Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 221-226
Item 12. Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities
A. Debt Securities n/a
B. Warrants and Rights n/a
C. Other Securities n/a
D. American Depositary Shares 371
Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies None
Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds None
Item 15. Controls and Procedures 163, 359-360
Item 16. [Reserved] n/a
Item 16A. Audit committee financial expert 98-102
Item 16B. Code of Ethics 359
Item 16C. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 101-102, 245, 360
Item 16D. Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees n/a
Item 16E. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 370
Item 16F. Change in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant n/a
Item 16G. Corporate Governance 358-359
Item 16H. Mine Safety Disclosure n/a
Item 16I. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections n/a
Item 16J. Insider Trading Policies. n/a
Item 16K. Cybersecurity 360
Item 17. Financial Statements n/a
Item 18. Financial Statements 164-168
Item 19. Exhibits 387
386 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023

Information about this report
This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance 
with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance 
with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for  BP p.l.c . for the year ended 
31 December 2023 . A cross reference to Form 20-F requirements is 
included on page 386 .
This document contains the Strategic report on the inside front cover and 
pages 1-80  and the Directors’ report on pages 81-104 , 105 (in part only), 
133-135, 247-274  and 335-384 . The Strategic report and the Directors’ 
report together include the management report required by DTR 4.1 of the 
UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules. The Directors’ remuneration report is on pages 105-132 . The 
consolidated financial statements of the group are on pages 137-246  and 
the corresponding reports of the auditor are on pages 138-163 . The parent 
company financial statements of BP p.l.c. are on pages 275-334 .
The Directors’ statements (comprising the Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities; Risk management and internal control; Longer-term 
viability; Going concern; and Fair, balanced and understandable), the 
independent auditor’s report on the annual report and accounts to the 
members of BP p.l.c., the parent company financial statements of BP p.l.c. 
and corresponding auditor’s report do not form part of bp’s Annual Report 
on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023  may be downloaded from bp.com/
annualreport . No material on the bp website, other than the items identified 
as bp Annual Report  and Form 20-F 2023 , forms any part of this document. 
References in this document to other documents on the bp website, such 
as bp Energy Outlook , bp Net Zero Ambition Progress Update  and bp 
Sustainability Report   are included as an aid to their location and are not 
incorporated by reference into this document.
BP p.l.c.  is the parent company of the bp group of companies. The 
company was incorporated in 1909 in England and Wales and changed its 
name to BP p.l.c. in 2001. Where we refer to the company, we mean BP 
p.l.c. The company and each of its subsidiaries « are separate legal entities. 
Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, the term “BP” or 
"bp" and terms such as “we”, “us” and “our” are used in this report for 
convenience to refer to one or more of the members of the bp group 
instead of identifying a particular entity or entities. Information in this 
document reflects 100% of the assets and operations of the company and 
its subsidiaries that were consolidated at the date or for the periods 
indicated, including non-controlling interests.
The company’s primary share listing is the London Stock Exchange. In the 
US, the company’s securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE) in the form of ADSs (see page 364  for more details) and in Germany 
in the form of a global depositary certificate representing bp ordinary 
shares traded on the Frankfurt, Hamburg and Düsseldorf Stock Exchanges.
The term ‘shareholder’ in this report means, unless the context otherwise 
requires, investors in the equity capital of BP p.l.c., both direct and indirect. 
As the company's shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the NYSE, an 
Annual Report on Form 20-F is filed with the SEC. Ordinary shares are 
ordinary fully paid shares in BP p.l.c. of 25 cents each. Preference shares 
are cumulative first preference shares and cumulative second preference 
shares in BP p.l.c. of £1 each.
Registered office and 
our worldwide headquarters:
BP p.l.c.
1 St James’s Square
London SW1Y 4PD
UK
Tel +44 (0)20 7496 4000Our agent in the US:
BP America Inc.
501 Westlake Park Boulevard
Houston, Texas 77079
US
Tel +1 281 366 2000
Registered in England and Wales No. 102498.
London Stock Exchange symbol ‘BP.’Exhibits
The following documents are filed in the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) EDGAR system, as part of this Annual Report on Form 
20-F, and can be viewed on the SEC’s website.
Exhibit 1 Memorandum and Articles of Association of BP 
p.l.c.***†
Exhibit 2 Description of rights of each class of securities 
registered under Section 12 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934†
Exhibit 4.1 The BP Executive Directors’ Incentive Plan**†
Exhibit 4.4 Director’s Service Agreement for K Thomson†
Exhibit 4.7 Director’s Service Agreement for M 
Auchincloss†
Exhibit 4.10 The BP Share Award Plan 2015***†
Exhibit 8 Subsidiaries (included as Note 37 to the 
Financial Statements)
Exhibit 11 Code of Ethics*†
Exhibit 12 Rule 13a – 14(a) Certifications†
Exhibit 13 Rule 13a – 14(b) Certifications#†
Exhibit 15. 1 Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates†
Exhibit 15.2 Report of Netherland, Sewell & Associates†
Exhibit 15.3 Consent Decree***†
Exhibit 15. 4 Gulf states Settlement Agreement***†
Exhibit 15. 5 Consent of Deloitte LLP†
Exhibit 17 Guaranteed Securities†
Exhibit 97 Executive Compensation Clawback Policy
Exhibit 101 Inline XBRL data files
Exhibit 104 Cover page interactive data file (formatted as 
Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101) 
* Incorporated by reference to the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 
the year ended 31 December 2009.
** Incorporated by reference to the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 
the year ended 31 December 2014.
*** Incorporated by reference to the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 
the year ended 31 December 2015.
**** Incorporated by reference to the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 
the year ended 31 December 2019.
***** Incorporated by reference to the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for 
the year ended 31 December 2020.
# Furnished only.
† Included only in the annual report filed in the Securities and Exchange 
Commission EDGAR system.
The total amount of long-term securities of BP p.l.c. and its subsidiaries 
under any one instrument does not exceed 10%  of their total assets on a 
consolidated basis.
The company agrees to furnish copies of any or all such instruments to the 
SEC on request.
«	 See glossary on  page 373 bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023 387

388
bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023Paper: Revive 100 Offset, a Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certified paper from responsible 
sources made from post-consumer waste. The paper is carbon balanced at source by World Land 
Trust™. The manufacturing mill is ISO14001 registered and is FSC® chain-of-custody certified.
Printed by Pureprint a CarbonNeutral® company with FSC® chain of custody and an ISO14001 
certified environmental management system.




© BP p.l.c. 2024bp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023bp’s corporate reporting suite 
includes information about our financial and operating performance, sustainability performance and global energy trends and projections.
bp.combp Annual Report and Form 20-F 2023
Details of our financial and operating performance in print and online.
bp.com/annualreport
bp Sus tainability R eport 2 023 
Details of our sustainability 
performance with additional 
information o nline.
bp.com/sustainability
bp Net Zero Ambition 
Progress Up date 2 023
Focuses on bp’s net zero ambition: 
why we believe it’s consistent with 
the Paris goals, our planned actions 
to deliver this decade and our 
progress to date.
bp.com/netzeroreport
bp E nergy O utlook 2 023
Provides our projections of future 
energy trends and factor s that could 
affect them out to 2040.
bp.com/energyoutlook
Group d atabook 2 019-2023
Five-year financial and operating data 
in PDF and Excel format.
bp.com/financial-disclosureCopies 
You can order selected bp printed publications free of charge from
bp.com/printedcopies
US and CanadaIssuer DirectToll-free: +1 888 301 2505
bpreports@issuerdirect.com
UK and rest of worldbp Distribution ServicesTel: +44 (0) 800 037 2172
bpdistributionservices@bp.com
Feedback Your feedback is important to us. You can contact the corporate reporting team at 
corporatereporting@bp.com

